hello
Hello there
Please enter a company name atleast
how are you
Good, thanks!
Please enter a company name atleast
what companies do you support btw?
tell me what info you have on them
can you tell me about the ceo of wends
Please enter a company name atleast
can you tell me about the ceo of wendys
I understand, here is info on Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance:

What do you wish to search?
how about the risks associated with restaurant brands
I understand, here is info on Item 1A. Risk Factors:
 Item 1A. Risk Factors
 Risks Related to Our Business Operations
 We face intense competition in our markets, which could negatively impact our business.
 The restaurant industry is intensely competitive and we compete with many well-established food service companies on the basis of product choice, quality, affordability, service and location. With few barriers to entry, our competitors include a variety of independent local operators, in addition to well-capitalized regional, national and international restaurant chains and franchises, and new competitors, such as virtual brands and dark kitchens, may emerge at any time. Furthermore, delivery aggregators and food delivery services provide consumers with convenient access to a broad range of competing restaurant chains and food retailers, particularly in urbanized areas, and may form a closer relationship with our customers and increase costs. Each of our brands also competes for qualified franchisees, suitable restaurant locations and management and personnel.
 Our ability to compete will depend on the success of our plans to effectively respond to consumer preferences, improve existing products, develop and roll-out new products, and manage the complexity of restaurant operations as well as the impact of our competitors’ actions. In addition, our long-term success will depend on our ability to strengthen our customers' digital experience through mobile ordering, delivery, loyalty programs, and social interaction. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources, higher revenues and greater economies of scale than we do. These advantages may allow them to implement their operational strategies more quickly or effectively than we can or benefit from changes in technologies, which could harm our competitive position. These competitive advantages may be exacerbated in a difficult economy, thereby permitting our competitors to gain market share. We may be unable to successfully respond to changing consumer preferences, including with respect to new technologies and alternative methods of delivery. In addition, online platforms and aggregators may direct potential customers to other options based on paid placements, online reviews or other factors. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position, we could experience lower demand for products, downward pressure on prices, reduced margins, an inability to take advantage of new business opportunities, a loss of market share, reduced franchisee profitability and an inability to attract qualified franchisees in the future.
 Failure to preserve the value and relevance of our brands could negatively impact our financial results.
 We depend in large part on the value of the TH, BK, PLK and FHS brands. To be successful in the future, we must preserve, enhance and leverage the value of our brands. Brand value is based in part on consumer tastes, preferences and perceptions on a variety of factors, including the nutritional content, methods of production and preparation of our products and our business practices, including with respect to animal welfare, sustainability and other environmental or social concerns. Consumer acceptance of our products may be influenced by or subject to change for a variety of reasons. For example, adverse publicity associated with nutritional, health and other scientific studies and conclusions, which constantly evolve and often have contradictory implications, may drive popular opinion against quick service restaurants in general, which may impact the demand for our products. Moreover, health campaigns against products we offer in favor of foods that are perceived as healthier may affect consumer perception of our product offerings and impact the value of our brands.
 In addition, adverse publicity related to litigation, regulation (including initiatives intended to drive consumer behavior) or incidents involving us, our franchisees, competitors or suppliers may impact the value of our brands by discouraging customers from buying our products. Perceptions may also be affected by activist campaigns to promote adverse perceptions of the quick service restaurant industry or our brands and/or our operations, suppliers, franchisees or other partners such as campaigns aimed at sustainability or living-wage opinions. Consumer demand for our products and our brand equity could diminish if we, our employees or our franchisees or other business partners fail to preserve the quality of our products, act or are perceived to act as unethical, illegal, racially-biased or in a socially irresponsible manner, including with respect to the sourcing, content or sale of our products or the use of consumer data for general or direct marketing or other purposes, fail to comply with laws and regulations, publicly take controversial positions or actions or fail to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience in each of our markets. If we are unsuccessful in addressing consumer adverse perceptions, our brands and our financial results may suffer.
 Economic conditions have and may continue to adversely affect consumer discretionary spending and our business and results.
 We believe that our restaurant sales, guest traffic and profitability are strongly correlated to consumer discretionary spending, which is influenced by general economic conditions, unemployment levels, the availability of discretionary income, inflation, and, ultimately, consumer confidence. A protracted economic slowdown, increased unemployment and underemployment of our customer base, decreased salaries and wage rates, inflation, rising interest rates or other industry-wide cost pressures adversely affect consumer behavior by weakening consumer confidence and decreasing consumer spending for restaurant dining occasions. Governmental or other responses to economic challenges may be unable to restore or maintain consumer confidence. As a result of these factors, during
 12
 Table of Contents
 recessionary periods we and our franchisees may experience reduced sales and profitability, which may cause our business and operating results to suffer.
 Our results can be adversely affected by unforeseen events, such as adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, war or terrorist attacks, pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, or other catastrophic events.
 Unforeseen events, such as adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or catastrophic events, can adversely impact restaurant sales. Natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, and severe adverse weather conditions and health pandemics whether occurring in Canada, the United States or abroad, can keep customers in the affected area from dining out, cause damage to or closure of restaurants and result in lost opportunities for our restaurants.
 For example, measures implemented to reduce the spread of COVID-19 adversely affected workforces, customers, consumer sentiment, supply chains, economies and financial markets, and, along with decreased consumer spending, led to an economic downturn and increased inflation in many of our markets. As a result of COVID-19 and resulting labor challenges, we and our franchisees have experienced store closures and instances of reduced store-level operations, including reduced operating hours and dining-room closures. While markets have reopened, local conditions and new variants have and may again lead to closures or increased limitations. As a result of COVID-19, restaurant traffic and system-wide sales have been and may continue to be significantly negatively impacted.
 We cannot predict the effects that actual or threatened armed conflicts such as the war in Ukraine, terrorist attacks, efforts to combat terrorism, or heightened security requirements will have on our future operations. Because a significant portion of our restaurant operating costs are fixed or semi-fixed in nature, the loss of sales and increases in labor, energy and commodity costs during these periods hurt our and our franchisees’ operating margins and can result in restaurant operating losses and our loss of royalties.
 Our results depend on effective marketing and advertising, successful new products launches and digital engagement.
 Our revenues are heavily influenced by brand marketing and advertising and by our ability to develop and launch new and innovative products. If our marketing and advertising programs are not successful, or we fail to develop commercially successful new products, our ability to attract new guests and retain existing guests and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Because franchisees contribute to advertising funds based on a percentage of gross sales at their franchise restaurants, advertising fund expenditures generally are dependent upon restaurant sales volumes. If system-wide sales decline, amounts available for our marketing and advertising programs will be reduced. Also, to the extent we use value offerings in our marketing and advertising programs to drive traffic, the low price offerings may condition our guests to resist higher prices in a more favorable economic environment.
 In addition, we continue to focus on transforming the restaurant experience through technology and digital engagement to improve our service model and strengthen relationships with customers, including through digital channels, loyalty initiatives, mobile ordering and payment systems and delivery initiatives. These initiatives may not have the anticipated impact on our franchise sales and therefore we may not fully realize the intended benefits of these significant investments. Also, utilizing third-party delivery services may not be as profitable as sales directly to our guests and may also introduce food quality and customer satisfaction risks outside of our control.
 The global scope of our business subjects us to risks and costs and may cause our profitability to decline.
 Our global operations expose us to risks in managing the differing cultural, regulatory, geopolitical and economic environments in the countries where our restaurants operate. These risks, which can vary substantially by market and may increase in importance as our franchisees expand operations in international markets, are described in many of the risk factors discussed in this report and include the following:
 •governmental laws, regulations and policies adopted to manage national economic conditions, such as increases in taxes, austerity measures that impact consumer spending, monetary policies that may impact inflation rates and currency fluctuations;
 •the imposition of import restrictions or controls;
 •the effects of legal and regulatory changes and the burdens and costs of our compliance with a variety of foreign laws;
 •changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment and trade in the countries in which we operate;
 •compliance with U.S., Canadian and other anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, including compliance by our employees, contractors, licensees or agents and those of our strategic partners and joint ventures;
 •risks and costs associated with political and economic instability, corruption, anti-American or anti-Canadian sentiment and social and ethnic unrest in the countries in which we operate;
 13
 Table of Contents
 •the risks of operating in developing or emerging markets in which there are significant uncertainties regarding the interpretation, application and enforceability of laws, regulations, contract rights and intellectual property rights;
 •risks arising from the significant and rapid fluctuations in currency exchange markets and the decisions and positions that we take to hedge such volatility;
 •the impact of labor costs on our franchisees' margins given changing labor conditions and difficulties experienced by our franchisees in staffing their international operations; and
 •the effects of increases in the taxes we pay and other changes in applicable tax laws.
 The conflict between Russia and Ukraine may continue to adversely impact economic conditions in Europe and elsewhere including through increased commodity, labor and energy costs that may adversely affect us and our franchisees’ restaurants.
 Our operations are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates.
 Because our reporting currency is U.S. dollars, the operations of TH, BK, PLK and FHS that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar are translated to U.S. dollars for our financial reporting purposes and are impacted by fluctuations in currency exchange rates and changes in currency regulations. In addition, fluctuations in interest rates may affect our business. Although we attempt to minimize these risks through geographic diversification and the utilization of derivative financial instruments, our risk management strategies may not be effective and our results of operations could be adversely affected.
 Increases in food, equipment and commodity costs or shortages or interruptions in supply or delivery thereof could harm our operating results and the results of our franchisees.
 The profitability of our franchisees and us depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food, equipment and commodity and supply costs. With respect to our TH business, volatility in connection with certain key commodities that we purchase in the ordinary course of business can impact our revenues, costs and margins. If commodity prices rise, franchisees may experience reduced sales due to decreased consumer demand at retail prices that have been raised to offset increased commodity prices, which may reduce franchisee profitability. In addition, the markets for beef and chicken are subject to significant price fluctuations due to seasonal shifts, climate conditions, the cost of grain, disease, industry demand, international commodity markets, food safety concerns, product recalls, government regulation, labor availability and cost and other factors, all of which are beyond our control and, in many instances unpredictable. Such increases in commodity costs may materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.
 We and our franchisees are dependent on frequent deliveries of fresh food products that meet our specifications. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of fresh food products or equipment caused by unanticipated demand, natural disasters or unforeseen events, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, problems in production or distribution, inclement weather, delays or restrictions on shipping and/or manufacturing, closures of supplier or distributor facilities, financial distress or insolvency of suppliers or distributors or other conditions have and in the future could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients and equipment, which could adversely affect our operating results. As of December 31, 2022, we have only a few distributors that service most of our BK, PLK and FHS operations in the U.S., and our operations could be adversely affected if any of these distributors were unable to fulfill their responsibilities and we were unable to locate a substitute distributor in a timely manner.
 Our supply chain operations subject us to additional risks and may cause our profitability to decline.
 We operate a vertically integrated supply chain for our TH business in which we manufacture, warehouse, and distribute certain food and restaurant supplies to TH restaurants. Risks associated with this strategy include:
 •delays and/or difficulties associated with, or liabilities arising from, owning a manufacturing, warehouse and distribution business;
 •maintenance, operations and/or management of the facilities, equipment, employees and inventories;
 •limitations on the flexibility of controlling capital expenditures and overhead;
 •increased transportation, shipping, food and other supply costs;
 •inclement weather or extreme weather events;
 •shortages or interruptions in availability or supply of high-quality coffee beans, perishable food products and/or their ingredients;
 •variations in the quality of food and beverage products and/or their ingredients; and
 •political, physical, environmental, labor, or technological disruptions (such as from cybersecurity incidents) in our or our suppliers’ manufacturing and/or warehousing plants, facilities, or equipment.
 14
 Table of Contents
 If we do not adequately address the challenges related to these vertically integrated operations or the overall level of utilization or production decreases for any reason, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely impacted. Moreover, interruptions in the availability and delivery of food, beverages and other supplies to our restaurants arising from shortages or greater than expected demand, may increase costs or reduce revenues. As of December 31, 2022, we have only one or a few suppliers to service each category of products sold at our TH restaurants, and the loss of any one of these suppliers would likely adversely affect our business.
 We and our franchisees may be unable to secure desirable restaurant locations to maintain and grow our restaurant portfolios.
 The success of any restaurant depends in substantial part on its location. Neighborhood or economic conditions where our restaurants are located could decline in the future as demographic patterns change, resulting in potentially reduced sales in those locations. Competition for restaurant locations can also be intense and there may be delays or cancellation of new site developments by developers and landlords, which may be exacerbated by factors related to the commercial real estate or credit markets. If franchisees cannot obtain desirable locations for their restaurants at reasonable prices due to, among other things, higher than anticipated acquisition, construction and/or development costs of new restaurants, difficulty negotiating leases with acceptable terms, onerous land use or zoning restrictions, or challenges in securing required governmental permits, then their ability to execute their respective growth strategies may be adversely affected.
 Based on their size advantage and/or their greater financial resources, some of our competitors may have the ability to negotiate more favorable lease terms than we can and some landlords and developers may offer priority or grant exclusivity to some of our competitors for desirable locations. As a result, we or our franchisees may not be able to obtain new leases or renew existing leases on acceptable terms, if at all, which could adversely affect our sales and brand-building initiatives.
 Food safety concerns and concerns about the health risk of fast food may adversely affect our business.
 Food safety is a top priority for us and we dedicate substantial resources to ensure that our customers enjoy safe, high-quality food products. However, food-borne illnesses and other food safety issues have occurred in the food industry in the past and could occur in the future. Also, our reliance on third-party food suppliers, distributors and food delivery aggregators increases the risk that food-borne illness incidents could be caused by factors outside of our control and that multiple locations would be affected rather than a single restaurant. Any report or publicity, including through social media, linking us or one of our franchisees or suppliers to instances of food-borne illness or other food safety issues, including food tampering, adulteration or contamination, could adversely affect our brands and reputation as well as our sales and profits. Such occurrence at restaurants of competitors could adversely affect sales as a result of negative publicity about the industry generally. The occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, which could result in disruptions in our supply chain, significantly increase costs and/or lower margins for us and our franchisees. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in stricter health regulations and guidelines, which have increased operating costs for our franchisees.
 Some of our products contain caffeine, dairy products, fats, sugar and other compounds and allergens, the health effects of which are the subject of public scrutiny, including suggesting that excessive consumption of these compounds can lead to a variety of adverse health effects. An unfavorable report on the health effects of any compounds present in our products, or negative publicity or litigation arising from other health risks such as obesity, could significantly reduce the demand for our beverages and food products. A decrease in customer traffic as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity could materially and adversely affect our brands and our business.
 If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, the value of our brands and our business may be harmed.
 Our brands, which represent approximately 46% of the total assets on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2022, are very important to our success and our competitive position. We rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, service marks, trade secrets, patents, industrial designs, and other intellectual property rights to protect our brands and the respective branded products. While we have registered certain trademarks in Canada, the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions, not all of the trademarks that our brands currently use have been registered in all of the countries in which we do business, and they may never be registered in all of these countries. We may not be able to adequately protect our trademarks, and our use of these trademarks may result in liability for trademark infringement, trademark dilution or unfair competition. The steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property in Canada, the U.S. and other countries may not be adequate and we may, from time to time, be required to institute litigation to enforce our trademarks or other intellectual property rights or to protect our trade secrets. Further, third parties may assert or prosecute infringement claims against us. In these cases, our proprietary rights could be challenged, circumvented, infringed or invalidated. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our revenue, profitability and prospects regardless of whether we are able to successfully enforce our rights. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of Canada and the U.S.
 15
 Table of Contents
 Changes in regulations may adversely affect restaurant operations and our financial results.
 Our restaurants are subject to licensing and regulation by health, sanitation, safety and other agencies in the state, province and/or municipality in which the restaurant is located. Federal, state, provincial and local government authorities have enacted and may enact laws, rules or regulations that impact restaurant operations and may increase the cost of doing business. In developing markets, we face the risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. If we fail to comply with existing or future laws, we may be subject to governmental fines and sanctions.
 We are subject to various provincial, state and foreign laws that govern the offer and sale of a franchise, including in the U.S., to an FTC rule. Various provincial, state and foreign laws regulate certain aspects of the franchise relationship, including terminations and the refusal to renew franchises. The failure to comply with these laws and regulations in any jurisdiction or to obtain required government approvals could result in a ban or temporary suspension on future franchise sales, fines and penalties or require us to make offers of rescission or restitution, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. We could also face lawsuits by franchisees based upon alleged violations of these laws.
 If we are unable to effectively manage the risks associated with our complex regulatory environment, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.
 Climate change and our inability to effectively implement measures to address environmental, social and governance disclosure and business practices could negatively affect our business or damage our reputation.
 We, our franchisees and our supply chain are subject to risks and costs arising from the effects of climate change, greenhouse gases, and diminishing energy and water resources. These risks include the increased public focus, including by governmental and nongovernmental organizations, on these and other environmental and social sustainability matters, such as packaging and waste, animal health and welfare, deforestation and land use. Also, we face increased pressure to make commitments, set targets, provide expanded disclosure and establish additional goals and take actions to meet them which could expose us to market, operational and execution costs or risks. Addressing environmental and social sustainability matters requires system-wide coordination and alignment, and the standards by which these matters are measured are evolving and subject to assumptions that could change over time.
 Climate change may have a negative effect on agricultural productivity which may result in decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities used in our products, such as beef, chicken, coffee beans and dairy. Climate change may also increase the frequency or severity of natural disasters and other extreme weather conditions, which could disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products. Concern over climate change and other environmental and social sustainable business practices may result in new or increased legal and regulatory requirements or generally accepted business practices, which could significantly increase costs. Any failure to achieve our goals with respect to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and other sustainable business practices or perception of a failure to act responsibly with respect to the environment or to effectively respond to regulatory requirements concerning climate change or other sustainable business practices can lead to adverse publicity, diminish the value of our brands and result in an adverse effect on our business.
 Outsourcing certain functions to third-party vendors subjects us to risks, including disruptions and increased costs.
 We have outsourced certain administrative functions for our business, certain information technology support services and benefit plan administration to third-party service providers. In the future, we may outsource other functions to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. If the outsourced service providers do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may incur additional costs in connection with such failure to perform. Depending on the function involved, such failures may also lead to business disruption, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of sales and customers, the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, and the loss of data through security breach or otherwise. Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, cause us to face significant fines, customer notice obligations or costly litigation, harm our reputation with our customers or prevent us from paying our collective suppliers or employees or receiving payments on a timely basis.
 
 16
 Table of Contents
 Risks Related to Our Fully Franchised Business Model
 Our fully franchised business model presents a number of disadvantages and risks.
 Nearly all of our restaurants are owned and operated by franchisees. Under our fully franchised business model, our future prospects depend on our ability to attract new franchisees for each of our brands that meet our criteria and the willingness and ability of franchisees to open restaurants in existing and new markets. We may be unable to identify franchisees who meet our criteria, or franchisees we identify may not successfully implement their expansion plans.
 Our fully franchised business model presents a number of other drawbacks, such as limited influence over franchisees, limited ability to facilitate changes in restaurant ownership, limitations on enforcement of franchise obligations due to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings and reliance on franchisees to participate in our strategic initiatives. While we can mandate certain strategic initiatives through enforcement of our franchise agreements, we will need the active support of our franchisees if the implementation of these initiatives is to be successful. The failure of franchisees to support our marketing programs and strategic initiatives could adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy and could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. On occasion we have encountered, and may in the future encounter, challenges in receiving specific financial and operational results from our franchisees in a consistent and timely manner, which can negatively impact our business and operating results.
 Our competitors that have a significantly higher percentage of company-operated restaurants than we do may have greater influence over their respective restaurant systems and greater ability to implement operational initiatives and business strategies, including their marketing and advertising programs.
 The ability of our franchisees and prospective franchisees to obtain financing for development of new restaurants or reinvestment in existing restaurants depends in part upon financial and economic conditions beyond their control. If our franchisees are unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms or otherwise do not devote sufficient resources to develop new restaurants or reinvest in existing restaurants, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. Also, investments in restaurant remodels and upgrades by franchisees and us may not have the expected results with respect to consumer sentiment, increased traffic or return on investment.
 Our franchisees are also dependent upon their ability to attract and retain qualified employees in an intensely competitive labor market.
 Our results are closely tied to the success of independent franchisees, and we have limited influence over their operations.
 We generate revenues in the form of royalties, fees and other amounts from our franchisees and our operating results are closely tied to their success. However, our franchisees are independent operators and we cannot control many factors that impact the profitability of their restaurants. At times, we have and may in the future provide cash flow support to franchisees by extending loans, advancing cash payments and/or providing rent relief where we have property control. These actions have and may in the future adversely affect our cash flow and financial results.
 If sales trends or economic conditions worsen for franchisees, their financial results may deteriorate, which could result in, among other things, restaurant closures; delayed or reduced payments to us of royalties, advertising contributions, rents and, delayed or reduced payments for TH products and supplies; and an inability for such franchisees to obtain financing to fund development, restaurant remodels or equipment initiatives on acceptable terms or at all. Also, franchisees may not be willing or able to renew their franchise agreements with us due to low sales volumes, high real estate costs, or the failure to secure lease renewals. If our franchisees fail to renew their franchise agreements, our royalty revenues may decrease which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.
 Franchisees and sub-franchisees may not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with our established procedures, standards and requirements or standards set by applicable law, including sanitation and pest control standards or data processing and cybersecurity requirements. Any operational shortcoming of a franchise or sub-franchise restaurant is likely to be attributed by guests to the entire brand and may be shared widely through social media, thus damaging the brand’s reputation and potentially affecting our revenues and profitability. We may not be able to identify problems and take effective action quickly enough and, as a result, our image and reputation may suffer, and our franchise revenues and results of operations could decline.
 17
 Table of Contents
 Labor challenges for franchisees or being liable as a joint employer could adversely affect our business.
 The inability of our franchisees to recruit and retain qualified individuals or increased costs to do so, including due to labor market dynamics or increases in legally required wages, may delay openings of new restaurants by our franchisees and could adversely impact existing franchise restaurant operations and franchisee profitability, which could slow our growth. If employees at either franchisee or company restaurants become unionized, their or our business could be negatively affected by factors that increase cost, decrease flexibility or otherwise disrupt the business. Responses to labor organizing efforts by our franchisees or us could negatively impact brand perception and our business and financial results. In September 2022, California passed legislation establishing a council to set sector-wide standards on wages, hours and working conditions related to the health, safety and welfare of fast food restaurant workers; although a voter referendum blocked the new law, the potential referendum challenge is set to be on the ballot in 2024. This law and other labor related laws enacted or currently proposed at the federal, state, provincial or local level could increase our and our franchisees’ labor costs and decrease profitability.
 Joint employer status is a developing area of franchise and labor and employment law that could be subject to changes in legislation, administrative agency interpretation or jurisprudential developments that may increase franchisor liability in the future. In September 2022, the National Labor Relations Board proposed a new rule that would allow a party asserting a joint-employment relationship to establish joint-employer status by using evidence of indirect and reserved forms of control bearing on an employee’s essential terms and conditions of employment. If this broader standard were to be adopted, which is likely, we could potentially be liable for unfair labor practices and other violations by franchisees or we could be required to conduct collective bargaining negotiations regarding employees of franchisees, who are independent employers. In such event, our operating costs may increase as a result of required modifications to business practices, increased litigation, governmental investigations or proceedings, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil liability. Employee claims that are brought against us as a result of joint employer standards and status may also, in addition to legal and financial liability, create negative publicity that could adversely affect our brands and divert financial and management resources. A significant increase in the number of these claims, or an increase in the number of successful claims, could adversely impact our brand’s reputation, which may cause significant harm.
 Our future growth and profitability will depend on our ability to successfully accelerate international development with strategic partners and joint ventures.
 We believe that the future growth and profitability of each of our brands will depend on our ability to successfully accelerate international development with strategic partners and joint ventures in new and existing international markets. New markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets. As a result, new restaurants in those markets may have lower average restaurant sales than restaurants in existing markets and may take longer than expected to reach target sales and profit levels or may never do so. We will need to build brand awareness in those new markets we enter through advertising and promotional activity, and those activities may not promote our brands as effectively as intended, if at all.
 We have adopted a master franchise development model for all of our brands, which in markets with strong growth potential may include participating in strategic joint ventures, to accelerate international growth. These arrangements may give our joint venture and/or master franchise partners the exclusive right to develop and manage our restaurants in a specific country or countries, including, in some cases, the right to sub-franchise. A joint venture partnership involves special risks, including the following: our joint venture partners may have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with those of the joint venture or us, or our joint venture partners may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone. Our master franchise arrangements present similar risks and uncertainties. We cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners or master franchisees, including any nonperformance, default or bankruptcy of joint venture partners or master franchisees. While sub-franchisees are required to operate their restaurants in accordance with specified operations, safety and health standards, we are not party to the agreements with the sub-franchisees and are dependent upon our master franchisees to enforce these standards with respect to sub-franchised restaurants. As a result, the ultimate success and quality of any sub-franchised restaurant rests with the master franchisee and the sub-franchisee. In addition, the termination of an arrangement with a master franchisee or a lack of expansion by certain master franchisees has and may in the future result in the delay or discontinuation of the development of franchise restaurants, or an interruption in the operation of our brand in a particular market or markets. We may not be able to find another operator to resume development activities in such market or markets. Any such delay, discontinuation or interruption could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.
 
 18
 Table of Contents
 Risks Related to our Indebtedness
 Our substantial leverage and obligations to service our debt could adversely affect our business.
 As of December 31, 2022, we had aggregate outstanding indebtedness of $13,045 million, including senior secured term loan facilities in an aggregate principal amount of $6,440 million, senior secured first lien notes in an aggregate principal amount of $2,800 million and senior secured second lien notes in an aggregate principal amount of $3,650 million. Subject to restrictions set forth in these instruments, we may also incur significant additional indebtedness in the future, some of which may be secured debt. This may have the effect of increasing our total leverage.
 Our substantial leverage could have important potential consequences, including, but not limited to:
 •increasing our vulnerability to, and reducing our flexibility to respond to, changes in our business and general adverse economic and industry conditions;
 •requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to our debt service, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, joint ventures, product research, dividends, share repurchases or other corporate purposes;
 •increasing our vulnerability to a downgrade of our credit rating, which could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity and access to capital markets;
 •placing us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to certain of our competitors who are not as highly leveraged;
 •restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;
 •exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates for variable interest rate borrowings under our credit facilities;
 •the discontinuation of the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) after June 2023 and the replacement with an alternative reference rate may adversely impact our interest rates and our interest rate hedging strategy;
 •making it more difficult for us to repay, refinance or satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt;
 •limiting our ability to borrow additional funds in the future and increasing the cost of any such borrowing; and
 •exposing us to risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency as we earn profits in a variety of currencies around the world and substantially all of our debt is denominated in U.S. dollars.
 If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to pay indebtedness and other funding needs or refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all, our financial condition may be materially adversely affected.
 Our indebtedness limits our ability to take certain actions and could delay or prevent a future change of control.
 The terms of our indebtedness include a number of restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness or guarantee or prepay indebtedness; pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of capital stock; make investments or acquisitions; create liens or use assets as security in other transactions; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of substantially all of our or our subsidiaries’ assets; make intercompany transactions; and enter into transactions with affiliates. These limitations may hinder our ability to finance future operations and capital needs and our ability to pursue business opportunities and activities that may be in our interest. In addition, our ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control.
 A breach of the covenants under our indebtedness could result in an event of default under the applicable agreement allowing the debt holders to accelerate repayment of such debt as well as any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, default under our senior secured credit facilities would also permit the lenders thereunder to terminate all other commitments to extend additional credit thereunder, including under the revolver. Similarly, in the event of a change of control, pursuant to the terms of our indebtedness, we may be required to repay our credit facilities, or offer to repurchase the senior secured first lien and second lien notes as well as future indebtedness. Such current and future terms could have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change of control or may discourage a potential acquirer from proposing or completing a transaction that may otherwise have presented a premium to our shareholders.
 Following the occurrence of either an event of default or change of control, we may not have sufficient resources to repurchase, repay or redeem our obligations, as applicable, and we may not be able to obtain additional financing to satisfy these obligations on terms favorable to us or at all. Also, if we were unable to repay the amounts due under our secured indebtedness, the holders of such indebtedness could proceed against the collateral that secures such indebtedness. In the event our creditors accelerate the repayment of our secured indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness.
 
 19
 Table of Contents
 Risks Related to Taxation
 Unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect the taxes we pay and our profitability.
 We are subject to income and other taxes in Canada, the United States, and numerous foreign jurisdictions. A taxation authority may disagree with certain of our views, including, for example, the allocation of profits by tax jurisdiction, and the deductibility of our interest expense, and may take the position that material income tax liabilities, interest, penalties, or other amounts are payable by us, in which case, we expect to contest such assessment. Contesting such an assessment may be lengthy and costly and if we were unsuccessful, the implications could be materially adverse to us and affect our effective income tax rate and/or operating income.
 From time to time, we are subject to additional state and local income tax audits, international income tax audits and sales, franchise and value-added tax audits. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The Canada Revenue Agency (the “CRA”), the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) and/or foreign tax authorities may not agree with our interpretation of the tax aspects of reorganizations, initiatives, transactions, or any related matters associated therewith that we have undertaken.
 The results of a tax audit or related litigation could result in us not being in a position to take advantage of the effective income tax rates and the level of benefits that we anticipated to achieve as a result of corporate reorganizations, initiatives and transactions, and the implications could have a material adverse effect on our effective income tax rate, income tax provision, net income (loss) or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made.
 RBI and Partnership may be treated as U.S. corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could subject us and Partnership to substantial additional U.S. taxes.
 Because RBI and Partnership are organized under the laws of Canada, we are classified as foreign entities (and, therefore, non-U.S. tax residents) under general rules of U.S. federal income taxation that an entity is considered a tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation. Even so, the IRS may assert that we should be treated as a U.S. corporation (and, therefore, a U.S. tax resident) for U.S. federal income tax purposes pursuant to complex rules under Section 7874 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). In addition, a retroactive or prospective change to U.S. tax laws in this area could adversely impact this classification. If we were to be treated as a U.S. corporation for federal tax purposes, we could be subject to substantially greater U.S. tax liability than currently contemplated as a non-U.S. corporation.
 Future changes to Canadian, U.S. and other foreign tax laws, including future regulations and other interpretive guidance of such tax laws, could materially affect RBI and/or Partnership, and adversely affect their anticipated financial positions and results.
 Our effective tax rate, cash taxes and financial results could be adversely impacted by changes in applicable tax laws (including regulatory, administrative, and judicial interpretations and guidance relating to such laws) in the jurisdictions in which we operate.
 The 2021 Canadian Federal Budget proposed various tax law changes, including a new limitation on the deductibility of interest and similar expenses; revised draft legislation was released on November 3, 2022, deferring the proposed effective date to taxation years beginning on or after October 1, 2023. In general, the draft legislation proposes to limit the deductibility of interest and other financing-related expenses to the extent that such expenses, net of interest and financing-related income, exceed a fixed ratio of the entity’s tax EBITDA, with a specified carry-back limit and an indefinite carry-forward limit. The proposed rules and their application are complex and could materially increase our future income taxes if enacted, adversely impacting our effective tax rate and financial results.
 The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (“IRA”) in the U.S. contains provisions that were effective January 1, 2023, including a 15% corporate alternative minimum tax based on adjusted financial statement income. While we do not currently expect the IRA to have a material impact on our financial statements, we will continue to evaluate its effect as further guidance becomes available. In addition, the U.S. Treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance with respect to existing and new tax laws that may significantly impact how such laws are applied. A number of currently contemplated tax law changes if enacted could materially adversely affect our effective income tax rate, cash taxes and financial results.
 The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (“OECD”), the European Union (“EU”) and many countries (including countries in which we operate) have committed to enacting substantial changes to numerous long-standing tax principals impacting how large multinational enterprises are taxed in an effort to limit perceived base erosion and profit shifting incentives, including a 15% global minimum tax applied on a country-by-country basis, likely applicable to periods beginning on or after December 31, 2023. The OECD has issued model rules with respect to various aspects of such proposed changes and ongoing public
 20
 Table of Contents
 consultation with additional guidance expected. The implementation, timing and many details regarding such potential tax law changes remain uncertain as individual countries evaluate and pursue their respective approaches to enacting the principles underlying such model rules. Such global tax developments could materially increase our future income taxes if enacted, adversely impacting our effective tax rate and financial results.
 Risks related to Information Technology
 The personal information that we collect may be vulnerable to breach, theft, or loss that could adversely affect our reputation, results of operations, and financial condition.
 In the ordinary course of our business, we collect, process, transmit, and retain personal information regarding our employees and their families, our franchisees and their employees, vendors, contractors, and consumers, which can include social security numbers, social insurance numbers, banking and tax identification information, health care information, and credit card information and our franchisees collect similar information. In recent years we expanded our development and management of our brands’ mobile apps, online ordering platforms, and in-restaurant kiosks and started to provide point-of-sale software. While our deployment of such technology facilitates our primary goals of generating incremental sales and improving operations at our franchisees’ restaurants as well as additional customer awareness and interest in our brands, such deployment also means that we are collecting and entrusted with additional personal information about our customers. In Canada, we have been the subject of government investigation and purported class action lawsuits based on the use of certain geolocation data for TH mobile app users. Negative publicity regarding these matters or future concerns could adversely affect our reputation and our brands. Some of this personal information is also held and managed by our franchisees, including master franchisees, and certain of our vendors, and in these cases the franchisee or vendor is responsible for complying with local laws (including applicable data privacy laws) and adequately securing the data. A third-party may be able to circumvent the security and business controls that we, our vendors, our franchisees, or our franchisees' vendors use to limit access and use of personal information, which could result in a breach of employee, consumer, or franchisee privacy.
 A major breach, theft, or loss of the personal information described above that is held by us, our vendors, our franchisees, or our franchisees' vendors could adversely affect our reputation and restaurant operations as well as result in substantial fines, penalties, indemnification claims, and potential litigation against us which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to risks related with non-compliance of privacy and data protection laws and regulations. For example, under the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), companies must meet certain requirements regarding the handling of personal data or face penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. Furthermore, the collection and safeguarding of personal information has increasingly attracted enhanced scrutiny from the general public in the United States and Canada, which has resulted in additional actual and proposed legislative and regulatory rules at the federal, provincial and state levels (e.g., the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020, Canada's Bill C-11 and Quebec’s Bill-64). These regulations as well as their interpretation and criteria for enforcement, continue to be subject to frequent change, and there may be other jurisdictions that propose or enact new or emerging data privacy requirements in the future. As a result of such legislative and regulatory rules, we may be required to notify the owners of the personal information of any data breaches, which could harm our reputation and financial results, as well as subject us to litigation or actions by regulatory authorities. Furthermore, media or other reports of existing or perceived security vulnerabilities in our systems or those of our franchisees or vendors, or misuse of personal data, even if no breach has been attempted or has occurred, has and in the future may lead to investigations and litigation and may adversely impact our brand, reputation, and business.
 Significant capital investments and other expenditures could be required to remedy a breach and prevent future problems, including costs associated with additional security technologies, personnel, experts, and credit monitoring services for those whose data has been breached. These costs, which could be material, could adversely impact our results of operations during the period in which they are incurred. The techniques and sophistication used to conduct cyber-attacks and breaches, as well as the sources and targets of these attacks, change frequently and are often not recognized until such attacks are launched or have been in place for a period of time. Accordingly, our efforts and expenditures to prevent future cyber-attacks or breaches may not be successful.
 Information technology system failures or interruptions or breaches of our network security may interrupt our operations, cause reputational harm, subject us to increased operating costs and expose us to litigation.
 We rely heavily on our computer systems and network infrastructure across operations including, but not limited to, point-of-sale processing at our restaurants, as well as the systems of our third-party vendors to whom we outsource certain administrative functions. Despite our implementation of security measures, all of our technology systems (including those of our vendors) are vulnerable to damage, disruption or failures due to physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, or other catastrophic events, as well as from problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, internal and external security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms, and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. If any of our or our vendors' technology systems were to fail or become subject to ransomware and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we could experience an interruption in our operations. Furthermore, if unauthorized access to or use of our or our vendors' systems were to occur, data related to our proprietary information could be compromised. The occurrence of any of these incidents could have a material adverse effect on our
 21
 Table of Contents
 future financial condition and results of operations. To the extent that some of our worldwide reporting systems require or rely on manual processes, it could increase the risk of a breach due to human error.
 Further, the standards for systems currently used for transmission and approval of electronic payment transactions, and the technology utilized in electronic payment themselves, all of which can put electronic payment data at risk, are determined and controlled by the payment card industry, not by us. If someone is able to circumvent our data security measures or those of third parties with whom we do business, including our franchisees, he or she could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt our operations. Any security breach could expose us to risks of data loss, litigation, liability, and could seriously disrupt our operations. Any resulting negative publicity could significantly harm our reputation and could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.
 Finally, we have expended and may need to continue to expend substantial financial and managerial resources to enhance our existing restaurant management systems, financial and management controls, information systems and personnel to accurately capture and reflect the financial and operational activities at our franchise restaurants. On occasion we have encountered, and may in the future encounter, challenges in receiving these results from our franchisees in a consistent and timely manner as a number of our systems and processes are not fully integrated worldwide. To the extent that we are not able to obtain transparency into our operations from our systems and manual estimations and effectively manage the information demands associated with significant growth, it could impair the ability of our management to react quickly to changes in the business or economic environment and our business and operating results could be negatively impacted.
 Risks Related to our Common Shares
 3G RBH owns approximately 29% of the combined voting power in RBI, and its interests may conflict with or differ from the interests of the other shareholders.
 3G Restaurant Brands Holdings LP (“3G RBH”) currently owns approximately 29% of the combined voting power in RBI. So long as 3G RBH continues to directly or indirectly own a significant amount of the voting power, it will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control business decisions of RBI. 3G RBH and its principals may have interests that are different from those of other shareholders, and 3G RBH may exercise its voting and other rights in a manner that may be adverse to the interests of such shareholders. In addition, this concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of RBI, which could cause the market price of our common shares to decline or prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their common shares or Partnership exchangeable units.
 Canadian laws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control.
 We are a Canadian entity. The Investment Canada Act requires that a “non-Canadian,” as defined therein, file an application for review with the Minister responsible for the Investment Canada Act and obtain approval of the Minister prior to acquiring control of a Canadian business, where prescribed financial thresholds are exceeded. This may discourage a potential acquirer from proposing or completing a transaction that may otherwise present a premium to shareholders.
 General Risks
 The loss of key management personnel or our inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could hurt our business.
 We are dependent on the efforts and abilities of our senior management, including the executives managing each of our brands, and our success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified employees. Failure to attract personnel sufficiently qualified to execute our strategy, or to retain existing key personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Also, integration of strategic transactions such as the acquisition of Firehouse Subs may divert management’s attention from other initiatives, and effectively executing our growth strategy.
 We have been, and in the future may be, subject to litigation that could have an adverse effect on our business.
 We are regularly involved in litigation including related to disputes with franchisees, suppliers, employees, team members, and customers, as well as disputes over our advertising claims about our food and over our intellectual property. See the discussion of Legal Proceedings in Note 17, “Commitments and Contingencies,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Active and potential disputes with franchisees could damage our brand reputation and our relationships with our broader franchise base. Such litigation may be expensive to defend, harm our reputation and divert resources away from our operations and negatively impact our reported earnings. Also, legal proceedings against a franchisee or its affiliates by third parties, whether in the ordinary course of business or otherwise, may include claims against us by virtue of our relationship with the franchisee. We, or our
 22
 Table of Contents
 business partners, may become subject to claims for infringement of intellectual property rights and we may be required to indemnify or defend our business partners from such claims. Should management’s evaluation of our current exposure to legal matters pending against us prove incorrect and such claims are successful, our exposure could exceed expectations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although some losses may be covered by insurance, if there are significant losses that are not covered, or there is a delay in receiving insurance proceeds, or the proceeds are insufficient to offset our losses fully, our financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected.
 
What do you wish to search?
thanks!
you're welcome
Please enter a company name atleast
summary
showchat 1
showchat 2
showchat 3
showchat-summary 3
thanks
you're welcome
Please enter a company name atleast
-clear
bot= 458 userUtt= 15

Time Taken: 1176
