hello
Hello there
Please enter a company name atleast
how are you?
Good, thanks!
Please enter a company name atleast
what companies do you support btw?
thanks
you're welcome
Please enter a company name atleast
tell me everything about wendys
Hello there
I understand, here is info on all information:


UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K
☒
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED January 1, 2023
or
☐		TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM ______________ TO _______________

Commission file number: 1-2207
THE WENDY’S COMPANY
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware	 	38-0471180
(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)	 	(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
One Dave Thomas Blvd.	 	43017
Dublin,
Ohio		(Zip Code)
(Address of principal executive offices)	 	
 
Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (614) 764-3100
---------------------------------
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of each class	Trading Symbol(s)	Name of each exchange on which registered
Common Stock, $.10 par value	WEN	The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None
 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes ☒ No ☐

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act. Yes ☐ No ☒

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes ☒ No ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). Yes ☒ No ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large accelerated filer	
☒
Accelerated filer	☐
Non-accelerated filer	
☐
Smaller reporting company	☐
Emerging growth company	☐
 



If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report. ☒

If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial statements. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation received by any of the registrant’s executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240.10D-1(b). ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes ☐ No ☒

The aggregate market value of common equity held by non-affiliates of The Wendy’s Company as of July 1, 2022 was approximately $3,282.5 million. As of February 21, 2023, there were 212,594,753 shares of The Wendy’s Company common stock outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
The information required by Part III of this Form 10-K, to the extent not set forth herein, is incorporated herein by reference from The Wendy’s Company’s definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A not later than 120 days after January 1, 2023.
 



THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
FORM 10-K TABLE OF CONTENTS

 	Page
PART I
Item 1.	Business	
6
Item 1A.	Risk Factors	
16
Item 1B.	Unresolved Staff Comments	
29
Item 2.	Properties	
29
Item 3.	Legal Proceedings	
30
Item 4.	Mine Safety Disclosures	
30
PART II
Item 5.	Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities	
31
Item 6.	[Reserved]	
32
Item 7.	Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations	
32
Item 7A.	Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk	
52
Item 8.	Financial Statements and Supplementary Data	
53
Item 9.	Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure	
110
Item 9A.	Controls and Procedures	
110
Item 9B.	Other Information	
112
Item 9C.	Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections	
112
PART III
Item 10.	Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance	
112
Item 11.	Executive Compensation	
112
Item 12.	Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters	
112
Item 13.	Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence	
112
Item 14.	Principal Accountant Fees and Services	
112
PART IV
Item 15.	Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules	
112
Item 16.	Form 10-K Summary	
117
 


PART I

Explanatory Note

The Wendy’s Company (“The Wendy’s Company”) is the parent company of its 100% owned subsidiary holding company, Wendy’s Restaurants, LLC (“Wendy’s Restaurants”). Wendy’s Restaurants is the parent company of Wendy’s International, LLC (formerly known as Wendy’s International, Inc.). Wendy’s International, LLC is the indirect parent company of (1) Quality Is Our Recipe, LLC (“Quality”), which is the owner and franchisor of the Wendy’s® restaurant system in the United States and all international jurisdictions except for Canada, and (2) Wendy’s Restaurants of Canada Inc., which is the owner and franchisor of the Wendy’s restaurant system in Canada. As used in this report, unless the context requires otherwise, the term “Company” refers to The Wendy’s Company and its direct and indirect subsidiaries, and “Wendy’s” refers to Quality when the context relates to the ownership or franchising of the Wendy’s restaurant system and to Wendy’s International, LLC when the context refers to the Wendy’s brand. References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (the “Form 10-K”) to restaurants that we “own” or that are “Company-operated” include owned and leased restaurants.

Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Projections

This Annual Report on Form 10-K and oral statements made from time to time by representatives of the Company may contain or incorporate by reference certain statements that are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Reform Act”). Generally, forward-looking statements include the words “may,” “believes,” “plans,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “estimate,” “goal,” “upcoming,” “outlook,” “guidance” or the negation thereof, or similar expressions. In addition, all statements that address future operating, financial or business performance, strategies or initiatives, future efficiencies or savings, anticipated costs or charges, future capitalization, anticipated impacts of recent or pending investments or transactions and statements expressing general views about future results or brand health are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Reform Act. Forward-looking statements are based on our expectations at the time such statements are made, speak only as of the dates they are made and are susceptible to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors. For all of our forward-looking statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Reform Act. Our actual results, performance and achievements may differ materially from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. Many important factors could affect our future results and cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by our forward-looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the following:

•the impact of competition or poor customer experiences at Wendy’s restaurants;

•adverse economic conditions or disruptions, including in regions with a high concentration of Wendy’s restaurants;

•changes in discretionary consumer spending and consumer tastes and preferences;

•the disruption to our business from the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and the impact of the pandemic on our results of operations, financial condition and prospects;

•impacts to our corporate reputation or the value and perception of our brand;

•the effectiveness of our marketing and advertising programs and new product development;

•our ability to manage the accelerated impact of social media;

•our ability to protect our intellectual property;

•food safety events or health concerns involving our products;

•our ability to deliver accelerated global sales growth and achieve or maintain market share across our dayparts;

•our ability to achieve our growth strategy through new restaurant development and our Image Activation program;

•our ability to effectively manage the acquisition and disposition of restaurants or successfully implement other strategic initiatives;

4

•risks associated with leasing and owning significant amounts of real estate, including environmental matters;

•risks associated with our international operations, including our ability to execute our international growth strategy;

•changes in commodity and other operating costs;

•shortages or interruptions in the supply or distribution of our products and other risks associated with our independent supply chain purchasing co-op;

•the impact of increased labor costs or labor shortages;

•the continued succession and retention of key personnel and the effectiveness of our leadership and organizational structure;

•risks associated with our digital commerce strategy, platforms and technologies, including our ability to adapt to changes in industry trends and consumer preferences;

•our dependence on computer systems and information technology, including risks associated with the failure or interruption of our systems or technology or the occurrence of cyber incidents or deficiencies;

•risks associated with our securitized financing facility and other debt agreements, including compliance with operational and financial covenants, restrictions on our ability to raise additional capital, the impact of our overall debt levels and our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations and operate our business;

•risks associated with our capital allocation policy, including the amount and timing of equity and debt repurchases and dividend payments;

•risks associated with complaints and litigation, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and an increased focus on environmental, social and governance issues;

•risks associated with the availability and cost of insurance, changes in accounting standards, the recognition of impairment or other charges, changes in tax rates or tax laws and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;

•conditions beyond our control, such as adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities, social unrest, health epidemics or pandemics or other catastrophic events;

•risks associated with our organizational redesign initiative; and

•other risks and uncertainties referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (see especially “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”) and in our other current and periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

In addition to the factors described above, there are risks associated with our predominantly franchised business model that could impact our results, performance and achievements. Such risks include our ability to identify, attract and retain experienced and qualified franchisees, our ability to effectively manage the transfer of restaurants between and among franchisees, the business and financial health of franchisees, the ability of franchisees to meet their royalty, advertising, development, reimaging and other commitments, participation by franchisees in brand strategies and the fact that franchisees are independent third parties that own, operate and are responsible for overseeing the operations of their restaurants. Our predominantly franchised business model may also impact the ability of the Wendy’s system to effectively respond and adapt to market changes. Many of these risks have been or in the future may be heightened due to the business disruption and impact from the COVID-19 pandemic.

All future written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to above. New risks and uncertainties arise from time to time, and factors that we currently deem immaterial may become material, and it is impossible for us to predict these events or how they may affect us. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K as a result of new information, future events or developments, except as required by federal
5

securities laws, although we may do so from time to time. We do not endorse any projections regarding future performance that may be made by third parties.

Item 1. Business.

Company Overview

Wendy’s is primarily engaged in the business of operating, developing and franchising a system of distinctive quick-service restaurants serving high quality food. Wendy’s opened its first restaurant in Columbus, Ohio in 1969. Today, Wendy’s is the second largest quick-service restaurant company in the hamburger sandwich segment in the United States (the “U.S.”) based on traffic share, and the third largest globally with 7,095 restaurants in the U.S. and 31 foreign countries and U.S. territories as of January 1, 2023.

At January 1, 2023, there were 5,994 Wendy’s restaurants in operation in the U.S. Of these restaurants, 403 were operated by the Company and 5,591 were operated by a total of 217 franchisees. In addition, at January 1, 2023, there were 1,101 Wendy’s restaurants in operation in 31 foreign countries and U.S. territories. Of the international restaurants, 1,089 were operated by 106 franchisees and 12 were operated by the Company in the United Kingdom (the “U.K.”).

The Company’s principal executive offices are located at One Dave Thomas Blvd., Dublin, Ohio 43017, and its telephone number is (614) 764-3100.

Corporate History

The Wendy’s Company’s corporate predecessor was incorporated in Ohio in 1929 and was reincorporated in Delaware in June 1994. Effective September 29, 2008, in conjunction with the merger of Triarc Companies, Inc. and Wendy’s International, Inc., the Company’s corporate name was changed from Triarc Companies, Inc. to Wendy’s/Arby’s Group, Inc. Effective July 5, 2011, in connection with the Company’s sale of Arby’s Restaurant Group, Inc., the Company’s corporate name was changed to The Wendy’s Company.

Fiscal Year

The Company’s fiscal reporting periods consist of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Sunday closest to December 31 and are referred to herein as (1) “the year ended January 1, 2023” or “2022,” which consisted of 52 weeks, (2) “the year ended January 2, 2022” or “2021,” which consisted of 52 weeks, and (3) “the year ended January 3, 2021” or “2020,” which consisted of 53 weeks.

Business Strategy

Wendy’s long-term growth opportunities include delivering accelerated global growth through (1) driving strong same-restaurant sales momentum across all dayparts, (2) accelerating our implementation of consumer-facing digital platforms and technologies and (3) expanding the Company’s footprint through global restaurant expansion. Wendy’s vision is to become the world’s most thriving and beloved restaurant brand.

Business Segments

The Company is comprised of the following segments: (1) Wendy’s U.S., (2) Wendy’s International and (3) Global Real Estate & Development. Wendy’s U.S. includes the operation and franchising of Wendy’s restaurants in the U.S. and derives its revenues from sales at Company-operated restaurants and royalties, fees and advertising fund collections from franchised restaurants. Wendy’s International includes the operation and franchising of Wendy’s restaurants in countries and territories other than the U.S. and derives its revenues from sales at Company-operated restaurants and royalties, fees and advertising fund collections from franchised restaurants. Global Real Estate & Development includes real estate activity for owned sites and sites leased from third parties, which are leased and/or subleased to franchisees, and also includes our share of the income of our Canadian restaurant real estate joint venture (“TimWen”). In addition, Global Real Estate & Development earns fees from facilitating franchisee-to-franchisee restaurant transfers (“Franchise Flips”) and providing other development-related services to franchisees. See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Item 7 herein and Note 27 of the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in Item 8 herein for segment financial information.

6

The Wendy’s Restaurant System

The revenues from our restaurant business are derived from two principal sources: (1) sales at Company-operated restaurants and (2) franchise-related revenues, including royalties, national advertising funds contributions, rents and franchise fees received from Wendy’s franchised restaurants. Company-operated restaurants comprised approximately 5% of the total Wendy’s system as of January 1, 2023.

Restaurant Openings and Closings

During 2022, Wendy’s opened 14 new Company-operated restaurants and closed seven generally underperforming Company-operated restaurants. During 2022, Wendy’s franchisees opened 262 new restaurants and closed 123 generally underperforming restaurants.

The following table sets forth the number of Wendy’s restaurants in operation at the beginning and end of each fiscal year from 2020 to 2022:
2022		2021		2020
Restaurants open at beginning of period	6,949 			6,828 			6,788 	
Restaurants opened during period	276 			210 			147 	
Restaurants closed during period	(130)			(89)			(107)	
Restaurants open at end of period	7,095 			6,949 			6,828 	
 

Restaurant Operations

Each Wendy’s restaurant offers an extensive menu specializing in hamburger sandwiches and featuring filet of chicken breast sandwiches, which are prepared to order with the customer’s choice of toppings and condiments. Wendy’s menu also includes chicken nuggets, chili, french fries, baked potatoes, freshly prepared salads, soft drinks, Frosty® desserts and kids’ meals. In addition, Wendy’s restaurants sell a variety of promotional products on a limited time basis. In March 2020, Wendy’s entered the breakfast daypart across the U.S. system and, in May 2022, launched breakfast in Canada. Wendy’s breakfast menu features a variety of breakfast sandwiches such as the Breakfast Baconator® and sides such as seasoned potatoes.

Free-standing Wendy’s restaurants generally include a pick-up window in addition to a dining room. In 2020, 2021 and 2022 pick-up window sales represented approximately 83%, 82% and 77% of sales at Company-operated restaurants, respectively.

Wendy’s strives to maintain quality and uniformity throughout all restaurants by publishing detailed specifications for food products, preparation and service, continual in-service training of employees, restaurant operational audits and field visits from Wendy’s supervisors. In the case of franchisees, field visits are made by Wendy’s personnel who review restaurant operations, including quality, service and cleanliness, and make recommendations to assist in compliance with Wendy’s specifications.

Supply Chain, Distribution and Purchasing

As of January 1, 2023, three independent processors (five total production facilities) supplied all of the beef used by Wendy’s restaurants in the U.S. In addition, seven independent processors (14 total production facilities) supplied all of the chicken used by Wendy’s restaurants in the U.S. In addition, there was one main in-line distributor of food, packaging and beverage products, excluding breads, that serviced approximately 67% of Wendy’s restaurants in the U.S. and four additional in-line distributors that, in the aggregate, serviced approximately 32% of Wendy’s restaurants in the U.S. Except as discussed below, Wendy’s and its franchisees have not experienced any material shortages of food, equipment, fixtures or other products that are necessary to maintain restaurant operations, and Wendy’s anticipates no such shortages of products and believes that alternate suppliers and distribution sources are available. During 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic led to interruptions in the delivery of beef and other products and, as a result, some menu items were occasionally in short supply at some Wendy’s system restaurants. While we and our supply chain partners effectively managed through this disruption, there can be no assurances that we will not see similar disruptions in the future. Suppliers and distributors to the Wendy’s system must comply with U.S. Department of Agriculture (“USDA”) and U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) regulations governing the manufacture, packaging, storage, distribution and sale of all food and packaging products.

7

Wendy’s has a purchasing co-op relationship structure with its franchisees that establishes Quality Supply Chain Co-op, Inc. (“QSCC”). QSCC manages, for the Wendy’s system in the U.S. and Canada, contracts for the purchase and distribution of food, proprietary paper, operating supplies and equipment under national agreements with pricing based upon total system volume. QSCC’s supply chain management facilitates the continuity of supply and provides consolidated purchasing efficiencies while monitoring and seeking to minimize possible obsolete inventory throughout the Wendy’s supply chain in the U.S. and Canada. Wendy’s and its franchisees pay sourcing fees to third-party vendors on certain products sourced by QSCC. Such sourcing fees are remitted by these vendors to QSCC and are the primary means of funding QSCC’s operations. Should QSCC’s sourcing fees exceed its expected needs, QSCC’s board of directors may return some or all of the excess to its members in the form of a patronage dividend.

Wendy’s does not sell food or restaurant supplies to its franchisees.

Quality Assurance

Wendy’s quality assurance program is designed to verify that the food products supplied to our restaurants are processed in a safe, sanitary environment and in compliance with our food safety and quality standards. Wendy’s quality assurance personnel regularly conduct sanitation and production audits for all of our core menu product processing facilities, which include beef, chicken, egg, pork, buns, french fries, Frosty® dessert ingredients and produce. Animal welfare audits are also conducted at all beef, chicken and pork facilities to confirm compliance with our required animal welfare and handling policies and procedures. In addition to our facility audit program, weekly samples of beef, chicken and other core menu products from our distribution centers are randomly sampled and analyzed by a third-party laboratory to test conformance to our quality specifications. Wendy’s representatives, including third-party auditors, regularly conduct evaluations and inspections of all Company-operated and franchised restaurants to test conformance to our sanitation, food safety and operational requirements. In addition, restaurant crew and managers at Company-operated and franchised restaurants are re-certified each year on critical food safety standards. Wendy’s has the right to terminate franchise agreements if franchisees fail to comply with quality standards.

Information Technology

Wendy’s relies on computer systems and information technology to conduct its business. Wendy’s utilizes both commercially available third-party software and proprietary software owned by the Company to run the point-of-sale and kitchen delivery functions and certain other consumer-facing and back-office functions in Wendy’s restaurants. Wendy’s has invested significant resources to focus on consumer-facing technology, including installing a single point-of-sale system for Wendy’s restaurants, activating mobile ordering via Wendy’s mobile apps, launching the Wendy’s Rewards loyalty program and establishing delivery arrangements with third-party vendors for Wendy’s U.S. and Canadian restaurants. We believe our digital platforms are critical to creating a more seamless user experience, providing insights to enhance our relationship with customers and meeting consumer demand for customization, speed and convenience. In December 2019, we implemented a plan to realign and reinvest resources in our IT organization to strengthen our ability to accelerate growth. We are partnering with a third-party global IT consultant on this new structure to leverage their global capabilities and enable a more seamless integration between our digital and corporate IT assets. In October 2021, we announced a partnership with a third-party global cloud provider with the intention to enhance our restaurant experience and unlock new customer, restaurant and employee experiences through data-driven insights.

Trademarks and Service Marks

Wendy’s or its subsidiaries have registered certain trademarks and service marks in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in international jurisdictions, some of which include Wendy’s®, Quality Is Our Recipe® and the Wendy Cameo design. Wendy’s believes that these and other related marks are of material importance to its business. Domestic trademarks and service marks have their next required maintenance filings at various times from 2023 to 2033 in order to keep such registrations in force, while international trademarks and service marks have various durations of seven to 15 years. Wendy’s generally intends to maintain and renew its trademarks and service mark registrations in accordance with applicable deadlines.

Wendy’s entered into an Assignment of Rights Agreement with the Company’s founder, Dave Thomas, and his wife dated as of November 5, 2000 (the “Assignment”). Wendy’s had used Mr. Thomas, who was Senior Chairman of the Board until his death on January 8, 2002, as a spokesperson and focal point for its products and services for many years. With the efforts and attributes of Mr. Thomas, Wendy’s has, through its extensive investment in the advertising and promotional use of Mr. Thomas’ name, likeness, image, voice, caricature, endorsement rights and photographs (the “Thomas Persona”), made the Thomas Persona well known in the U.S. and throughout North America and a valuable asset for both Wendy’s and Mr.
8

Thomas’ estate. Under the terms of the Assignment, Wendy’s acquired the entire right, title, interest and ownership in and to the Thomas Persona, including the sole and exclusive right to commercially use the Thomas Persona.

Research and Development

New product development is important to the Wendy’s system. The Company believes that the development and testing of new and improved products is critical to increasing sales, attracting new customers and differentiating the Wendy’s brand from competitors. The Company maintains a state-of-the-art research and development facility that includes a sensory lab, analytical labs, culinary kitchens and a Wendy’s test kitchen. The Company employs a variety of professionals from the culinary and food science disciplines to bring new and improved products to market.

Seasonality

Wendy’s restaurant operations are moderately seasonal. Wendy’s average restaurant sales are normally higher during the summer months than during the winter months. Because our business is moderately seasonal, results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for any other quarter or for the full fiscal year.

Competition

Each Wendy’s restaurant is in competition with other food service operations within the same geographical area. The quick-service restaurant segment is highly competitive and includes well-established competitors. Wendy’s competes with other restaurant companies and food outlets, primarily through the quality, variety, convenience, price and value perception of food and beverage products offered. The number and location of restaurants, quality and speed of service, attractiveness of facilities, effectiveness of marketing and new product development by Wendy’s and its competitors are also important factors. The price charged for each menu item may vary from market to market (and within markets) depending on competitive pricing and the local cost structure. Wendy’s competes within the food service industry and the quick-service restaurant sector for customers as well as for personnel, suitable real estate sites and qualified franchisees.

Wendy’s competitive position is differentiated by a focus on high quality, craveable food, its made-to-order square hamburgers using fresh, never frozen ground beef*, its unique and diverse menu, including chicken sandwiches, freshly-prepared salads and other signature items like chili, baked potatoes and the Frosty® dessert, its promotional products, its choice of toppings and condiments and the atmosphere and décor of its restaurants. (*Fresh beef available in the contiguous U.S., Alaska and Canada.) Wendy’s continues to implement its Image Activation program, which includes reimaging existing Wendy’s restaurants and building new Wendy’s restaurants with innovative exterior and interior restaurant designs, with plans for a significant number of new and reimaged restaurants in 2023 and beyond. The Image Activation program also differentiates the Company from its competitors by its emphasis on selection and performance of restaurant employees that provide friendly and engaged customer service in Wendy’s restaurants.

Many of the leading restaurant chains continue to focus on new restaurant development as one strategy to increase market share through increased consumer awareness and convenience. This results in increased competition for available development sites and higher development costs for those sites. Competitors also employ marketing strategies such as frequent use of price discounting, frequent promotions and heavy advertising expenditures. Continued price discounting, including the use of coupons and offers, in the quick-service restaurant industry and the emphasis on value menus could have an adverse impact on Wendy’s business.

Other restaurant chains have also competed by offering high quality sandwiches made with fresh ingredients and artisan breads, and there are several emerging restaurant chains featuring high quality food served at in-line locations. Several chains have also sought to compete by targeting certain consumer groups, such as capitalizing on trends toward certain types of diets or dietary preferences (e.g., plant-based food, alternative proteins, low carbohydrate, low trans-fat, gluten free or antibiotic free) by offering menu items that are promoted as being consistent with such diets.

Additional competitive pressures for prepared food purchases come from operators outside the restaurant industry. A number of major grocery chains offer fresh deli sandwiches and fully prepared food and meals to go as part of their deli sections. Some of these chains also have in-store cafes with service counters and tables where consumers can order and consume a full menu of items prepared especially for that portion of the operation. Additionally, convenience stores and retail outlets at gas stations frequently offer a wide variety of sandwiches and other foods.

9

Wendy’s also competes with grocery chains, food delivery providers and other retail outlets that sell food to be prepared at home. Competition with these chains, providers and other outlets could increase based on the gap between the price of food prepared at home compared to the price of food purchased at restaurants.

Technology and delivery are becoming increasingly critical parts of the restaurant consumer experience. In the quick-service restaurant category, technology initiatives include mobile interactive technology for brand and menu search information, mobile ordering, mobile payment, mobile offers, mobile order pick-up and carryout, customer loyalty and rewards programs and other self-service technologies. An increasing number of restaurant chains have also introduced or expanded their restaurant delivery arrangements as another strategy to increase market share. If our technology initiatives, digital commerce platforms or third-party delivery providers do not meet customers’ expectations in terms of security, speed, cost, attractiveness or ease of use, customers may be less inclined to use those platforms or providers and our competitive position could be adversely impacted.

System Optimization

The Company’s system optimization initiative included a shift from Company-operated restaurants to franchised restaurants over time, through acquisitions and dispositions, as well as by facilitating Franchise Flips. During 2016, the Company completed the sale of 310 Company-operated restaurants to franchisees, which resulted in the achievement of its plan to reduce its ongoing Company-operated restaurant ownership to approximately 5% of the total Wendy’s system.

While the Company has no plans to move its ownership away from approximately 5% of the Wendy’s system, it expects to continue to optimize the Wendy’s system by facilitating Franchise Flips, as well as evaluating strategic acquisitions of franchised restaurants and strategic dispositions of Company-operated restaurants to existing and new franchisees, to further strengthen the franchisee base, drive new restaurant development and accelerate adoption of Wendy’s Image Activation program. Wendy’s generally retains a right of first refusal in connection with any proposed sale or transfer of franchised restaurants.

The table below shows the number of restaurant acquisitions, restaurant dispositions and Franchise Flips completed in each of 2022, 2021 and 2020.
Year Ended
2022		2021		2020
Restaurant acquisitions	1 			93 			— 	
Restaurant dispositions	1 			47 			1 	
Franchise Flips (a)	79 			34 			54 	
 
_______________

(a)Represents franchisee-to-franchisee restaurant transfers for which the Company received advisory fees, which include valuation services and fees for selecting pre-approved buyers.

Franchising

As of January 1, 2023, 217 Wendy’s U.S. franchisees operated 5,591 franchised restaurants in 50 states and the District of Columbia, and 106 Wendy’s international franchisees operated 1,089 franchised restaurants in 31 foreign countries and U.S. territories.

U.S. Franchise Arrangements

The rights and obligations governing the majority of franchised restaurants operating in the U.S. are set forth in the Wendy’s current Unit Franchise Agreement (the “Current Franchise Agreement”) (non-traditional locations, including delivery kitchens, may operate under an amended agreement or alternate form of agreement). This agreement provides the franchisee the right to construct, own and operate a Wendy’s restaurant upon a site accepted by Wendy’s and to use the Wendy’s system in connection with the operation of the restaurant at that site. The Current Franchise Agreement provides for a 20-year term and a 10-year renewal subject to certain conditions. The initial term may be extended up to 25 years and the renewal extended up to 20 or 25 years for qualifying restaurants under the new restaurant development incentive and reimage programs described below in “Franchise Development and Other Relationships.” Wendy’s has in the past franchised under different agreements on a multi-unit basis; however, Wendy’s now grants new Wendy’s franchises on a unit-by-unit basis.
10


The Current Franchise Agreement requires that the franchisee pay a monthly royalty of 4.0% of sales, as defined in the agreement, from the operation of the restaurant. The agreement also typically requires that the franchisee pay Wendy’s an initial technical assistance fee. In the U.S., the standard technical assistance fee required under a newly executed Current Franchise Agreement is currently $50,000 for each new restaurant opened.

The technical assistance fee is used to defray some of the costs to Wendy’s for training, start-up and transitional services related to new and existing franchisees acquiring Company-operated restaurants and in the development and opening of new restaurants. In certain limited instances (such as a reduced franchise agreement term, development incentive programs or other unique circumstances), Wendy’s may charge a reduced technical assistance fee or may waive the technical assistance fee. Wendy’s does not select or employ personnel on behalf of franchisees.

International Franchise Arrangements

Wendy’s Restaurants of Canada Inc. (“WROC”), a 100% owned subsidiary of Wendy’s, holds master franchise rights for Canada. The rights and obligations governing the majority of franchised restaurants operating in Canada are set forth in a Single Unit Sub-Franchise Agreement (the “Single Unit Sub-Franchise Agreement”) (non-traditional locations, including delivery kitchens, may operate under an amended agreement or alternate form of agreement). This document provides the franchisee the right to construct, own and operate a Wendy’s restaurant upon a site accepted by WROC and to use the Wendy’s system in connection with the operation of the restaurant at that site. The Single Unit Sub-Franchise Agreement provides for a 20-year term and a ten-year renewal subject to certain conditions. The sub-franchisee pays to WROC a monthly royalty of 4.0% of sales, as defined in the agreement, from the operation of the restaurant. The agreement also typically requires that the franchisee pay WROC an initial technical assistance fee. The standard technical assistance fee is currently C$50,000 for each new restaurant opened.

Franchisees who wish to operate Wendy’s restaurants outside of the U.S. and Canada enter into franchise or license agreements with Wendy’s that generally provide franchise rights for each restaurant for an initial term of ten years or 20 years, depending on the country, and typically include a ten-year renewal provision, subject to certain conditions. The agreements grant a license to the franchisee to use the Wendy’s trademarks and know-how in the operation of a Wendy’s restaurant at a specified location. Generally, the franchisee pays Wendy’s an initial technical assistance fee or other per restaurant fee and monthly fees based on a percentage of gross monthly sales of each restaurant. In certain foreign markets, Wendy’s may grant the franchisee exclusivity to develop a territory in exchange for the franchisee undertaking to develop a specified number of new Wendy’s restaurants in the territory based on a negotiated schedule. In these instances, the franchisee generally pays Wendy’s an upfront development fee, annual development fees or a per restaurant development fee. In certain circumstances, Wendy’s may charge an upfront development fee for a non-exclusive territory, which is proportionate to a multi-unit development commitment. Wendy’s may also grant a franchisee the right to sub-franchise in a stated territory, subject to certain conditions.

Non-Traditional Development

Non-traditional locations, such as fuel and transportation centers, food courts and other retail locations, military bases and delivery kitchens, represent a component of Wendy’s development strategy. These non-traditional locations may be subject to different rights and obligations than our traditional franchise arrangements, including with respect to initial and renewal franchise terms, technical assistance fees, monthly royalty rates and advertising contribution rates, and the sales levels at these locations may also differ from sales levels at traditional Wendy’s restaurants.

Franchise Development and Other Relationships

In addition to its franchise and license agreements, Wendy’s also enters into development and/or relationship agreements with certain franchisees. The development agreement provides the franchisee with the right to develop a specified number of new Wendy’s restaurants using the Image Activation program design within a stated, non-exclusive territory for a specified period, subject to the franchisee meeting interim new restaurant development requirements. The relationship agreement addresses other aspects of the franchisor-franchisee relationship, such as restrictions on operating competing restaurants, participation in brand initiatives such as the Image Activation program, employment of approved operators, confidentiality and restrictions on engaging in sale/leaseback or debt refinancing transactions without Wendy’s prior consent.

To promote new restaurant development, Wendy’s has provided franchisees with certain incentive programs for qualifying new restaurants. In February 2023, Wendy’s announced a new restaurant development incentive program in the U.S. and
11

Canada that provides for waivers of royalty, national advertising and technical assistance fees for up to the first three years of operation for qualifying new restaurants (“Pacesetter”). Wendy’s previously offered and will continue to offer a restaurant development incentive program that provides for reductions in royalty and national advertising fees for up to the first two years of operation for qualifying new restaurants (“Groundbreaker”). Wendy’s U.S. and Canadian franchisees may elect either the Pacesetter program or the Groundbreaker program when committing to new multi-unit development agreements or adding incremental commitments to existing development agreements. Wendy’s also provides franchisees with the option of an early 20-year or 25-year renewal of their franchise agreement upon completion of reimaging utilizing certain approved Image Activation reimage designs.

Franchised restaurants are required to be operated under uniform operating standards and specifications relating to the selection, quality and preparation of menu items, signage, decor, equipment, uniforms, suppliers, maintenance and cleanliness of premises and customer service. Wendy’s monitors franchisee operations and inspects restaurants periodically to ensure that required practices and procedures are being followed. See “The Wendy’s Restaurant System—Quality Assurance” above for additional information.

See Note 7 and Note 22 of the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in Item 8 herein, and the information under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” herein, for information regarding certain guarantee obligations, reserves, commitments and contingencies involving franchisees.

Advertising and Marketing

In the U.S. and Canada, Wendy’s advertises nationally through national advertising funds primarily on network and cable television programs, including nationally televised events, as well as through audio and digital media, and advertises locally primarily through regional network and cable television, audio and digital media and out-of-home media, such as billboards. Wendy’s maintains two national advertising funds established to collect and administer funds contributed for use in advertising through television, radio, the Internet and a variety of promotional campaigns, including through digital and social media platforms. Separate national advertising funds are administered for Wendy’s U.S. and Canadian restaurant locations. Contributions to the national advertising funds are required to be made by both Company-operated and franchised restaurants and are based on a percentage of restaurant sales. In addition to the contributions to the national advertising funds, Wendy’s requires additional contributions to be made for both Company-operated and franchised restaurants based on a percentage of restaurant sales for the purpose of local and regional advertising programs. Required franchisee contributions to the national advertising funds and for local and regional advertising programs are governed by the Current Franchise Agreement in the U.S. and by the Single Unit Sub-Franchise Agreement in Canada. Required contributions by Company-operated restaurants for advertising and promotional programs are at the same percentage of sales as franchised restaurants within the Wendy’s system. As of January 1, 2023, the contribution rate for U.S. restaurants was generally 3.5% of sales for national advertising and 0.5% of sales for local and regional advertising. As of January 1, 2023, the contribution rate for Canadian restaurants was generally 3.0% of sales for national advertising and 1.0% of sales for local and regional advertising, with the exception of Quebec, for which there is no national advertising contribution rate and the local and regional advertising contribution rate is 4.0% of sales. Non-traditional locations, including delivery kitchens, may be subject to adjusted requirements for national, local and regional advertising contributions. See Note 25 of the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in Item 8 herein for additional information regarding advertising.

Human Capital

At Wendy’s, our vision is to become the world’s most thriving and beloved restaurant brand, and every day we strive to live our purpose of creating joy and opportunity through food, family and community. Our restaurants, our food and the value and service we provide to our customers are all integral to our long-term success, but ultimately it is our people that help us deliver our brand promise of “Fast Food Done Right” every single day.

We continue to invest in employees to ensure we are able to attract, hire and retain great talent throughout our organization. We measure our effectiveness in these areas using various tools and metrics, including administering employee engagement surveys annually and tracking our employee turnover rates compared to others in the restaurant industry.

Employees

As of January 1, 2023, the Company was comprised of approximately 14,500 employees, of which approximately one-third were full-time, and two-thirds were part-time. The vast majority of our employees are located in the U.S. and work in our Company-operated restaurants within our Wendy’s U.S. business segment. Outside of our Company-operated restaurants, our
12

largest population of employees work in our restaurant support organization, which includes employees across the globe and at our restaurant support center in Dublin, Ohio. We are proud to have a workforce with diverse backgrounds and experiences.

Respectful Workplace

From day one, the Wendy’s business has always been of, for and about people. Respect and fair treatment for our team members, franchisees, supplier partners and vendors are a central part of our business. So is staying true to the values established by our founder Dave Thomas more than 50 years ago, which include Doing the Right Thing, Treating People with Respect and Giving Something Back. Our commitment to these values is reflected in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which applies to Company employees and directors, and in our Supplier Code of Conduct, which sets forth our expectations for key suppliers to the Wendy’s system in the U.S. and Canada. We strive to bring our values to life through daily interactions with our team members, franchisees and customers and in the communities where we do business. We expect our employees to maintain respectful workplaces that support and protect the integrity of the Wendy’s brand and fuel our continued success.

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

We believe our strategic focus on diversity, equity and inclusion (“DE&I”) has helped, and will continue to help, the Company remain true to our values as well as support our financial performance and global growth strategy. Creating and fostering inclusive work environments allows us to create an engaging and welcoming culture for our employees, which we believe positively affects the quality of products, service and experience we deliver to our customers. Through the leadership and support of our Office of DE&I, we continue to make meaningful progress against all of our goals, including increasing the diversity of representation among Company leadership and management and attracting new, diverse franchisees into our system.

We are fortunate to have several thriving Employee Resource Groups (“ERGs”), which are voluntary employee-led groups, each sponsored by a Wendy’s senior leadership team member. Our ERGs serve an important role in support of our DE&I strategy, creating forums for learning and inclusion, providing opportunities to celebrate different backgrounds, empowering employees to bring their authentic self to work, and creating leadership and professional development opportunities. Our ERGs focus on employees and allies who identify as Women (Women of Wendy’s), LGBTQ+ (WeQual), Military Veterans & Families (WeVets), Culturally Diverse (WCD), Black (WeBERG) and Young Professionals (WenGEN). In 2022, we added our newest ERG, GiveCare, with a focus on caretakers for children, siblings, parents, partners and other family members.

Compensation and Benefits

We are committed to providing market-competitive pay and benefits to attract and retain great talent. We enable this by benchmarking and analyzing pay and benefits both externally and internally. In addition to receiving competitive hourly rates and base salaries, all general managers and district managers of our Company-operated restaurants are eligible for performance-based cash incentive bonuses. Restaurant support service employees are also eligible to participate in a performance-based annual bonus plan. For our restaurant-level employees, we offer the potential for raises based on individual performance reviews throughout the year. At Wendy’s, we are committed to providing pay equity for all employees, regardless of gender or ethnicity.

We also offer a robust set of benefits to help eligible employees and their families stay healthy, manage spend related to health and financial well-being and effectively balance work and life. For our U.S. employees, this includes offerings such as insurance for medical, dental, vision and prescription drugs, telehealth access, 401(k) savings and retirement plans, health savings accounts, employee assistance program, paid sick leave, bonding leave and adoption assistance.

Safety and Well-Being

We are committed to providing our employees with safe and comfortable work environments and offering resources that our employees can use to help promote their well-being. We are extremely proud of the work our employees have done to support our restaurants, employees, customers and communities that we serve throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. As the Company and our communities have transitioned from pandemic crisis intervention to ongoing prevention and protection, we remain committed to continuing to do our part to support the well-being of each other, our customers and our workplaces.

13

We remain focused on our high standards of quality and cleanliness at our restaurants through processes like reviewing cleaning procedures, maintaining an adequate supply of cleaning products and conducting our annual food safety recertification for our restaurant crew and managers. We also recognize that the well-being of our employees goes beyond work and our work environments. We offer several benefits to support the health and well-being of our employees, including our employee assistance program (EAP), available at no cost to all Company Employees and their household members, as well as other training and resources related to overall health and well-being.

Talent Development

To set our employees up for success and help them achieve their personal development needs and career growth, we invest in training and development programs at all levels within the Company. We also leverage annual processes that support individual performance planning, individual professional development planning and a broad review of talent development throughout the Company. Restaurant-level employees have the opportunity to take advantage of an extensive online learning curriculum, as well as hands-on training led by crew trainers, managers and field support staff. Restaurant managers and multi-unit operators participate in Wendy’s University, which includes targeted training to develop management and leadership skills. Wendy’s University also provides targeted programming for corporate management staff, including diversity training, people manager training, leadership dialogues and the opportunity to participate in third-party conferences and training. In 2022, we launched a new leadership development program (WeLead), facilitating a six-month program designed to build a performance-driven culture and develop talent across our organization.

Community-Based Giving

Wendy’s maintains a charitable giving program that supports four core categories: (1) foster care adoption; (2) hunger and food integrity; (3) youth and families; and (4) vibrant communities. In 2022, Wendy’s made charitable donations to a variety of organizations across the globe, highlighted by our continued support of the Dave Thomas Foundation for Adoption, a charitable foundation created by our founder, Dave Thomas, which has been our signature charitable cause for more than 25 years. In addition to corporate contributions, we also host an employee-driven Community Giving Program, in which employees from across the Wendy’s system nominate worthy charitable organizations to receive charitable grants from The Wendy’s Foundation. We also made grants available to charitable organizations chosen by each of our ERGs in support of their missions.

Additional information about our people and human capital initiatives is available on our website at www.wendys.com/what-we-value, in our annual Corporate Social Responsibility report and on The Square DealTM Wendy’s Blog at www.squaredealblog.com. The contents of our website and these additional information sources are not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K or any other report or document we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Governmental Regulations

U.S. Operations

The Company and our franchisees are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting the operation of our respective businesses, including laws and regulations relating to building and zoning, health, fire and safety, sanitation, food preparation, nutritional content and menu labeling, advertising, information security and privacy and consumer protection. Each Wendy’s restaurant is subject to licensing and regulation by a number of governmental authorities in the state and/or municipality in which the restaurant is located. The Company is also subject to federal, state and local laws governing labor and employment matters, including minimum wage requirements, overtime and other working conditions, family leave and health care mandates, union organizing, work authorization requirements, insurance and workers’ compensation rules and anti-discrimination and anti-harassment laws applicable to Company employees, and our franchisees are subject to labor and employment laws with respect to their employees. Additionally, the Company and our franchisees are subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act and other similar laws that provide civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of public accommodations and other areas.

The Company’s franchising activities are subject to the rules and regulations of the Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”) and various state laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises. The FTC requires that franchisors furnish a franchise disclosure document (“FDD”) containing certain information to prospective franchisees before the execution of a franchise agreement. Several states require registration and disclosure of the FDD in connection with franchise offers and sales and have laws regulating the franchisor-franchisee relationship. These state laws often limit, among other things, the duration and scope of non-competition provisions and the ability of franchisors to terminate franchise agreements or withhold consent to the
14

renewal or transfer of franchise agreements. The Company believes that our FDD, together with applicable state versions or supplements, and franchising procedures comply in all material respects with the FTC’s franchise rules and applicable state franchise laws.

International Operations

Internationally, the Company and our franchisees are subject to national, provincial and local laws and regulations that often are similar to those impacting us and our franchisees in the U.S., including laws and regulations concerning franchises, labor and employment, building and zoning, health, fire and safety, sanitation, food preparation, nutritional content, menu labeling, advertising, information security, privacy and consumer protection. Wendy’s restaurants outside the U.S. are also often subject to tariffs and regulations on imported commodities and equipment and laws regulating foreign investment, as well as anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. The Company believes that our international franchise disclosure documents and franchising procedures comply in all material respects with the laws of the applicable countries.

Environmental Matters

The Company’s operations, including the selection and development of properties that we own, lease and/or sublease to franchisees, and any construction or improvements made at those properties, are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations, including laws and regulations concerning the storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or toxic substances. Our properties are sometimes located in developed commercial or industrial areas and might previously have been occupied by more environmentally significant operations, such as gas stations. Environmental laws and regulations sometimes require owners or operators of contaminated property to remediate that property, regardless of fault, and could give rise to significant fines, penalties and liabilities, as well as third-party claims. The Company believes that our restaurant operations comply substantially with all applicable environmental laws and regulations.

Increased focus by governmental authorities on environmental matters is likely to lead to new governmental initiatives, particularly in the area of climate change. While we cannot predict the precise nature of these initiatives, we expect that they may impact our business both directly and indirectly. There is a possibility that government initiatives, or actual or perceived effects of changes in weather patterns, climate change or scarcity of energy and water resources, could have a direct impact on our business in ways that we cannot predict at this time.

Legal Matters

The Company is involved in litigation and claims incidental to our business. We provide accruals for such litigation and claims when we determine it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss is reasonably estimable. We believe we have adequate accruals for all of our legal and environmental matters. See Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” for additional information.

The Company does not believe that compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, or the outcome of any legal matters in which we are involved, will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. However, the Company cannot predict what laws or regulations will be enacted in the future, how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted or whether any legal matters in which we are involved could result in greater liabilities than we currently anticipate. See Item 1A “Risk Factors” for a discussion of certain risks relating to legal and regulatory requirements, litigation and claims and related matters affecting our business.

Available Information

We make our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, including exhibits and amendments to such reports, as well as our annual proxy statement, available, free of charge, on our Investor Relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. These filings are also available to the public on the Securities and Exchange Commission’s website at www.sec.gov. We also provide our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, free of charge, on our website. Our corporate website address is www.wendys.com and our Investor Relations website address is www.irwendys.com. Information contained on those websites is not part of this Form 10-K.

15

Item 1A. Risk Factors.

We wish to caution readers that in addition to the important factors described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, we have included below certain material factors that have affected, or in the future could affect, our actual results and could cause our actual consolidated results during fiscal 2023, and beyond, to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf.

Risks Related to Macroeconomic and Industry Conditions

Competition from other restaurant companies, as well as grocery chains and other retail food outlets, or poor customer experience at Wendy’s restaurants, could hurt our brand.

The market segments in which Wendy’s restaurants compete are highly competitive with respect to, among other things, price, food quality and presentation, service, location, convenience and the nature and condition of the restaurant facility. If customers have a poor experience at a Wendy’s restaurant, whether at a Company-operated or franchised restaurant, we may experience a decrease in customer counts. Further, Wendy’s restaurants compete with a variety of locally owned restaurants, as well as competitive regional, national and global restaurant chains. Several of these chains compete by offering menu items that are targeted at certain consumer groups or dietary trends. Additionally, many of our competitors have introduced lower cost value meal menu options and have employed marketing strategies that include frequent use of price discounting (including through the use of coupons and other offers), frequent promotions and heavy advertising expenditures. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do, which may allow them to react to changes in pricing and marketing strategies better than we can and drive higher levels of brand awareness among consumers. This product and price competition could result in reduced revenues and loss of market share.

Moreover, new companies, including operators outside the quick-service restaurant industry, may enter market areas in which Wendy’s restaurants operate and target our customer base. For example, additional competitive pressures for prepared food purchases have come from deli sections and in-store cafes of a number of major grocery store chains, as well as from convenience stores, casual dining outlets and food delivery providers. Such competitors may have, among other things, lower operating costs, better locations, better facilities, more effective marketing and more efficient operations. Wendy’s also competes with grocery chains and other retail outlets or concepts that sell food to be prepared at home. Competition with these chains and other outlets could increase based on the gap between the price of food prepared at home compared to the price of food purchased at restaurants. This increased product and price competition could put deflationary pressure on the selling price of products offered at Wendy’s restaurants. All such competition may adversely affect our brand, business, results of operations and financial condition.

Adverse economic conditions or disruptions in the national and global economies, or in regions that have a high concentration of Wendy’s restaurants, could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Adverse economic conditions or disruptions in the national and global economies could result in higher unemployment rates, labor shortages, increases in inflation and interest rates and declines in consumer confidence and spending. If such disruptions occur, they may result in significant declines in consumer food-away-from-home spending and customer counts in Wendy’s restaurants. There can be no assurance that government responses to economic disruptions will restore consumer confidence. Ongoing disruptions in the national and global economies may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, adverse economic conditions in regions that contain a high concentration of Wendy’s restaurants, including markets in which Company-operated restaurants are located, could also have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

Changes in discretionary consumer spending, and in consumer tastes and preferences, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.

The success of the Wendy’s system depends to a significant extent on discretionary consumer spending, which is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. Material declines in the amount of discretionary spending or consumer food-away-from-home spending could hurt our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, significant increases in expenses incurred by consumers, such as living expenses or gasoline prices, could also adversely affect our business. Our success also depends to a large extent on continued consumer acceptance of our offerings, the success of our operating, promotional, marketing and new product development initiatives and the reputation of our brand. If we are unable to continue to achieve consumer acceptance or adapt to changes in consumer preferences, including
16

with respect to nutrition, health or dietary trends or environmental or social concerns, Wendy’s restaurants may lose customers, and the resulting revenues from Company-operated restaurants and the royalties that we receive from franchisees may decline.

The COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted and could continue to disrupt our business, which has materially affected and could continue to materially affect our results of operations, financial condition and prospects.

The COVID-19 pandemic and related protective measures have adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our business. During the height of the pandemic, our customer counts and systemwide sales were significantly negatively impacted. Even as mobility increases, customers have been and may continue to be reluctant to return to in-restaurant dining. Our restaurant operations have been and could continue to be disrupted by the pandemic, including restaurant and dining room closures, labor shortages or increased labor costs. Furthermore, the pandemic has led, and could again lead, to interruptions in the delivery of food or other supplies to Wendy’s restaurants arising from delays or restrictions on shipping or manufacturing, labor shortages and increased labor costs, closures of supplier or distributor facilities or financial distress of suppliers or distributors. These delays or interruptions have impacted, and could continue to impact, the availability of certain food items at Wendy’s restaurants, including beef, chicken, pork and other core menu products. Our results of operations and those of our franchisees could be adversely affected if our key suppliers or distributors are unable to fulfill their responsibilities and we are unable to timely identify and transition the impacted business to alternative suppliers or distributors. The pandemic has had, and could again have, an adverse effect on new restaurant development, as well as on our franchisees’ operations and financial condition. To the extent the pandemic causes development delays, or leads to the financial distress of our franchisees, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be impacted. Such risks and other potential impacts from the pandemic could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources, which may impede our ability to comply with our debt covenants or access additional capital. In addition to the risks described above, the pandemic has had, and could continue to have, the effect of heightening other risks disclosed in this risk factors section, including, but not limited to, those related to brand value and perception, consumer preferences and spending, our ability to achieve or maintain market share, new restaurant development, commodity costs, labor, supply chain and purchasing and international operations. We cannot predict the ultimate duration, scope or severity of the pandemic or its ultimate impact on our results of operations, financial condition and prospects.

Risks Related to Brand Perception and Value

Our success depends substantially on our corporate reputation and on the value and perception of our brand.

Our success depends in large part upon our ability to maintain and enhance the value of our brand, our customers’ loyalty to our brand and a positive relationship with our franchisees and other business partners. Brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities. Business incidents, whether isolated or recurring, and whether originating from us, our franchisees or our business partners, can significantly reduce brand value and consumer trust, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation. For example, our brand could be damaged by claims or perceptions about the quality or safety of our products or the quality or reputation of our franchisees or other business partners, regardless of whether such claims or perceptions are true. Our brand could also be adversely impacted by other incidents described in this risk factors section, including incidents related to customer service, health or safety, a failure to attract and retain qualified employees, food safety or other health concerns regarding our products, the impact of social media, data privacy violations, cyber incidents, environmental, social and governance matters or reports of our employees, franchisees or business partners taking controversial positions or acting in an unethical, illegal or socially irresponsible manner. Any such incidents could cause a decline in consumer confidence in our brand and reduce consumer demand for our products, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Our results of operations and the value and perception of our brand depend in part on the effectiveness of our marketing and advertising programs and the successful development and launch of new products.

Our results of operations and the value and perception of our brand are heavily influenced by brand marketing and advertising and by our ability to develop and launch new and innovative products. Our marketing and advertising programs may not be successful, or we may fail to develop commercially successful new products, which may impact our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and the value and perception of our brand. Moreover, because franchisees contribute to advertising funds based on a percentage of sales at their franchised restaurants, advertising fund expenditures are dependent upon sales volumes across the Wendy’s system. If systemwide sales decline, this could result in a reduced amount of funds available for our marketing and advertising programs. In addition, to the extent we use value offerings or other promotions or discounts in our marketing and advertising
17

programs to drive customer counts, these actions may condition our customers to resist higher menu prices or result in reduced demand for premium products.

Our inability or failure to recognize, respond to and effectively manage the accelerated impact of social media could adversely impact our brand, business and results of operations.

Social media platforms, including forms of internet-based communications, allow individuals access to a broad audience. The availability of information on social media platforms is virtually immediate and has given users the ability to more effectively organize collective actions such as boycotts and other brand-damaging behaviors. The dissemination of information via social media, whether accurate or inaccurate, could harm our business, brand, reputation, results of operation and financial condition. This damage may be immediate, without an opportunity to correct inaccurate information or respond to or address particular issues. In addition, as part of our marketing efforts, we frequently use social media to communicate with consumers in order to build their awareness of, engagement with and loyalty to our brand. Our failure to use social media effectively or appropriately, particularly as compared to our competitors, could lead to a decline in brand value, customer visits and revenues. Laws and regulations governing the use of social media continue to rapidly evolve. A failure by us, our employees, our franchisees or third parties acting on our behalf to abide by applicable laws and regulations in the use of social media could adversely impact our reputation, brand, results of operations and financial condition or subject us to litigation, fines or other penalties. Social media risks could also arise from employees not following defined policies for the use of social media during business operations, or actions taken by employees during personal activities outside of their employment, but which could still reflect negatively on the Wendy’s brand.

We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brand and hurt our business.

Our intellectual property is material to the conduct of our business. We rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, service marks, trade secrets and similar intellectual property rights to protect our brand and other intellectual property. The success of our business strategy depends, in part, on our continued ability to use our trademarks and service marks to increase brand awareness and further develop our branded products in existing and new markets. If our efforts to protect our intellectual property are not adequate, or if any third party misappropriates, infringes, dilutes or otherwise violates our intellectual property, the value of our brand may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we try to ensure that the quality of our brand is maintained by our franchisees, we cannot ensure that franchisees will not take actions that hurt the value of our intellectual property or the reputation of the Wendy’s brand or restaurant system. Any damage or violation of our intellectual property could harm our image, brand or competitive position and result in significant legal fees and the diversion of resources. If we do not attempt or are unable to successfully protect, maintain or enforce our intellectual property rights, there could be a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations as a result of, among other things, consumer confusion, dilution of the Wendy’s brand or increased competition from unauthorized users of our brand.

We have registered certain trademarks and have other trademark registrations pending in the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions. Not all of the trademarks that are used in the Wendy’s system have been registered in all of the countries in which we do business or may do business in the future, and some trademarks will never be registered in all of these countries. Some countries’ laws make unregistered trademarks more difficult to enforce, or do not protect them at all, and third parties have filed, or may in the future file, for “Wendy’s” or similar marks. Accordingly, we may not be able to adequately protect the Wendy’s brand everywhere in the world and use of the Wendy’s brand may result in liability for trademark infringement, trademark dilution or unfair competition. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We cannot ensure that all of the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property in the United States and foreign countries will be adequate.

We cannot ensure that third parties will not bring infringement claims against us in the future. Any such claim, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, cause delays in introducing new menu items, require costly modifications to advertising and promotional materials, harm our brand, image, competitive position or ability to expand our operations into other jurisdictions, cause us to incur significant costs related to defense or settlement or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. As a result, any such claim could harm our business and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, third parties may assert that certain of our intellectual property, or our rights therein, are invalid or unenforceable. If our rights in any of our intellectual property were found to infringe third-party rights, or portions thereof were deemed invalid or unenforceable, we may be forced to defend or resolve related claims and incur related expenses. In addition, such loss of rights could permit competing uses of such intellectual property which, in turn, could harm our business and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.

18

Food safety events or health concerns regarding our products could create negative publicity and adversely affect our brand, business and results of operations.

Food safety is a top priority for Wendy’s, and we dedicate substantial resources to food safety matters to ensure our customers enjoy safe, quality food products. However, food safety events, including instances of food-borne illness (such as salmonella or E. coli), have occurred in the food industry in the past, and could occur in the future. For example, in August 2022, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (the “CDC”) began investigating a multistate outbreak of E. coli in which many of the impacted individuals reported having eaten at a Wendy’s restaurant and most reported consuming sandwich romaine lettuce. The Company cooperated with the CDC’s investigation and, as a precautionary measure, removed sandwich romaine lettuce from its restaurants in the relevant region. In October 2022, the CDC announced that the outbreak was over and that the specific source of the outbreak had not been confirmed. The Company was referenced in news stories related to the outbreak, and the Company (and others) have been named in various claims and lawsuits related to the outbreak. Food safety events, whether or not involving Wendy’s restaurants or other restaurant companies, could adversely affect the price and availability of certain products and result in negative publicity for Wendy’s or the restaurant industry. This negative publicity may reduce demand for Wendy’s food and could result in a decrease in customer counts to Wendy’s restaurants as consumers shift their preferences to our competitors or to other products or food types. Any report linking our restaurants or suppliers to food-borne illnesses, food tampering, contamination or mislabeling or other food-safety issues could damage the value of our brand immediately and severely hurt sales of our products and possibly lead to product liability claims, litigation (including class actions) or other damages. The Wendy’s system may also be adversely impacted by consumer concerns regarding the nutritional aspects of the products we sell, the ingredients in our products or the cooking processes used in our restaurants. These or similar concerns could result in less demand for our products and a decline in sales at Company-operated restaurants and in royalties from sales at franchised restaurants.

Risks Related to Our Business Strategy

We may be unable to deliver accelerated global sales growth or achieve or maintain market share across our dayparts.

Our business strategy includes a focus on driving strong sales momentum across all of our dayparts through exciting menu innovation, compelling value offerings and operational excellence. However, we may be unable to deliver accelerated global sales growth or achieve or maintain market share across our dayparts due to competitive pressures and other factors, such as consumer tastes and preferences, the effectiveness of our marketing and advertising programs, the successful development and launch of new products, commodity and labor costs, providing fast and accurate customer experiences, further accelerating our digital business, driving new restaurant development and ensuring the support and engagement of franchisees. For example, Wendy’s recently entered the breakfast daypart in the United States and Canada with a breakfast program designed to drive incremental sales and profits through a strong economic model. Our inability to successfully execute on our strategy for the breakfast daypart and reach targeted levels of sales and profits could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Our predominantly franchised business model presents a number of risks.

As of January 1, 2023, approximately 95% of restaurants in the Wendy’s system were operated by franchisees. Wendy’s franchisees are contractually obligated to operate their restaurants in accordance with the standards set forth in our franchise and other agreements with them. Wendy’s also provides training and support to franchisees. However, franchisees are independent third parties that we do not control, and franchisees own, operate and oversee the daily operations of their restaurants. Specifically, franchisees are solely responsible for developing and utilizing their own policies and procedures, making their own hiring, firing and disciplinary decisions, scheduling hours and establishing wages and managing their day-to-day employment processes and procedures in accordance with applicable laws, rules and regulations, all of which is done independent of Wendy’s. Further, franchisees have discretion as to the prices charged to customers. As a result, the ultimate success and quality of any franchise restaurant rests with the franchisee. If franchisees do not successfully operate their restaurants in a manner consistent with required standards, their royalty payments to us could be adversely affected and our brand’s image and reputation could be harmed, which in turn, could hurt our business and results of operations. In addition, the failure of franchisees to adequately engage in succession planning may adversely affect their restaurant operations and development of new Wendy’s restaurants, which in turn could hurt our business and results of operations.

Wendy’s franchisees are an integral part of our business, growth and brand strategies, and difficulties in identifying, attracting and retaining franchisees who meet our criteria could harm our business and brand. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if a significant number of franchisees do not participate in brand strategies, such as new restaurant development, Image Activation, marketing and menu programs and digital commerce platforms and technologies,
19

which in turn may harm our business and financial condition. In addition, Wendy’s current franchise model, and the way our brand strategies are executed across the system, may make it difficult for our brand to respond and adapt to the speed of change in technology, consumer preferences or other factors as quickly as may be required to maintain and grow market share and remain competitive. Certain of our competitors that have a significantly higher percentage of company-operated restaurants than we do may have greater influence over their respective restaurant systems and greater ability to implement operational initiatives and business strategies.

We receive revenues in the form of royalties and national advertising funds contributions (both of which are generally based on a percentage of sales at franchised restaurants), as well as rent and fees from franchisees. Accordingly, a substantial portion of our financial results is to a large extent dependent upon the operational and financial success of our franchisees. If sales trends or economic conditions worsen for franchisees, or if the overall business or financial health of franchisees deteriorates, their results of operations or financial condition may worsen and our royalty, national advertising funds, rent and other fee revenues may decline. Additionally, when Company-operated restaurants with leased real estate are sold to franchisees, we are often required to remain responsible for lease payments for these restaurants in the event the purchasing franchisees default on their leases. Similarly, when we lease or sublease properties to franchisees, we remain responsible for certain expenses related to the properties, such as lease payments and maintenance charges. If franchisees fail to renew their franchise agreements or fail to perform under or extend their leases or subleases with us, or if we are unable to identify, attract and retain new franchisees who meet our criteria, then our royalty and rental revenues may decrease and our future growth could be adversely affected.

The growth of our business is dependent on new restaurant openings, which could be affected by factors beyond our control.

Our business derives earnings from sales at Company-operated restaurants as well as royalties and other fees received from franchised restaurants. Growth in our revenues and earnings is dependent on new restaurant openings. Numerous factors beyond our control may adversely affect new restaurant openings, which in turn could hurt our business and results of operations. These factors include, among others: (i) our ability to attract new franchisees; (ii) the availability of site locations for new restaurants; (iii) the ability of restaurant owners to obtain financing; (iv) the ability of restaurant owners to attract, train and retain qualified operating personnel; (v) construction and development costs; (vi) the ability of restaurant owners to secure required governmental approvals and permits in a timely manner, or at all; (vii) the ability of us and our franchises to execute our development strategy for non-traditional restaurants, such as fuel and transportation centers, food courts and other retail locations, military bases and delivery kitchens; and (viii) adverse weather conditions. Our inability to identify suitable locations, achieve consumer acceptance or otherwise execute our development strategy could have an adverse impact on our future growth, results of operations and financial condition.

Our Image Activation program may not positively affect sales or improve our results of operations, and franchisees may not participate in our Image Activation program to the extent expected by us.

We continue to implement our Image Activation program, which includes reimaging existing Wendy’s restaurants and building new Wendy’s restaurants with innovative exterior and interior restaurant designs. Our Image Activation program may not positively affect sales at Wendy’s restaurants or improve our results of operations. There can also be no assurance that franchisees will participate in the Image Activation program to the extent expected by the Company. In order to support our Image Activation program and promote new restaurant development, we have provided franchisees with certain incentive programs for qualifying new and reimaged restaurants, including waivers or reductions in royalty, national advertising and technical assistance fees and options for the early renewal of franchise agreements. It is possible we may provide additional financial incentives to franchisees, which could result in additional expenses, a reduction of royalties or other revenues or the incurrence of other costs or liabilities. Some franchisees may need to borrow funds in order to reimage existing restaurants or build new restaurants under the Image Activation program. If franchisees are unable to obtain financing at commercially reasonable rates, or at all, they may be unwilling or unable to invest in the reimaging of their existing restaurants or the development of new restaurants, and our future growth and results of operations could be adversely affected.

We may be unable to manage effectively the acquisition and disposition of restaurants, or successfully implement other strategic initiatives, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial results.

We continue to optimize the Wendy’s system through our system optimization initiative, which includes facilitating the transfer of restaurants between and among franchisees, as well as evaluating strategic acquisitions of franchised restaurants and strategic dispositions of Company-operated restaurants to existing and new franchisees, to further strengthen the franchisee base, drive new restaurant development and accelerate adoption of our Image Activation program. The success of this initiative
20

is dependent upon many factors, such as the availability of sellers and buyers, the availability of financing, the ability to negotiate transactions on terms deemed acceptable and the ability to successfully transition and integrate restaurant operations. Acquisitions of franchised restaurants pose various risks to our operations, including (i) diversion of management’s attention to the integration of acquired restaurant operations; (ii) increased operating expenses and the inability to achieve expected cost savings and operating efficiencies; (iii) exposure to liabilities arising out of prior operations of acquired restaurants; and (iv) the assumption of long-term, non-cancelable leases. Our system optimization initiative also places demands on our operational and financial management resources and may require us to expand these resources. If we are unable to execute our system optimization initiative or effectively manage the acquisition and disposition of restaurants, our business and financial results could be adversely affected.

In addition, Wendy’s from time to time evaluates and may pursue other opportunities for growth, including through new and existing franchise partners, joint venture investments, expansion of our brand through other opportunities and strategic mergers, acquisitions and divestitures. These strategic initiatives involve various risks, including general transaction and business risk, integration and synergy risk, market acceptance risk and risks associated with the potential diversion of management’s attention. Strategic transactions may not ultimately create value for us or our stockholders and may harm our reputation and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Our leasing and ownership of significant amounts of real estate exposes us to possible liabilities and losses, including liabilities associated with environmental matters.

We have significant real estate operations in connection with our business and are subject to the normal risks associated with owning, leasing and subleasing real estate. Our real estate values and the costs associated with our real estate operations are impacted by a variety of factors, including changes in the investment climate for real estate, macroeconomic trends, governmental regulations, infrastructure, condemnation or eminent domain, insurance, demographic trends, supply chain management, supply and demand for the ownership and operation of restaurants and environmental matters. A significant decrease in real estate values or increase in real estate costs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

We are subject to federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning the discharge, storage, handling, release and disposal of hazardous or toxic substances. These environmental laws provide for significant fines, penalties and liabilities, sometimes without regard to whether the owner, operator or occupant of the property knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. Third parties may also make claims against owners, operators or occupants of properties for personal injuries and property damage associated with releases of or exposure to such substances. A number of our restaurant sites were formerly gas stations or are adjacent to current or former gas stations or were used for other commercial activities that can create environmental impacts. While we employ environmental review standards and practices in the current development of our real estate, we have not conducted a comprehensive environmental review of all of our properties and we may not have identified all of the potential environmental liabilities at our leased and owned properties, and any such liabilities identified in the future could cause us to incur significant costs, including costs associated with litigation, fines or clean-up responsibilities. We cannot predict the amount of future expenditures that may be required in order to comply with any environmental laws or regulations or to satisfy any such claims.

We generally secure long-term real estate interests for our leased restaurants and have limited flexibility to quickly alter our real estate portfolio. Many leases provide that the rent will increase over the term of the lease and any renewals of the term. Most leases require us to pay the costs of insurance, taxes, maintenance, utilities and capital repairs and replacements. We generally cannot cancel these leases prior to the expiration of their term. If an existing or future restaurant is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying rent, taxes and maintenance costs for the balance of the lease term. In addition, as our leases expire, we may fail to negotiate additional renewals or renewal options, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close restaurants in desirable locations, negatively impacting our results of operations.

Our international operations are subject to various risks and uncertainties and there is no assurance that our international operations will continue to be profitable.

In addition to many of the factors described in this risk factors section, our business outside of the United States is subject to a number of additional risks and uncertainties, including international economic and political conditions, risk of corruption and violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar laws of other countries, the inability to adapt to differing cultures or consumer preferences, inadequate brand infrastructure to support our international activities, inability to obtain adequate supplies meeting our quality standards and product specifications or interruptions in obtaining such supplies,
21

challenges and risks associated with managing and monitoring suppliers, restrictions on our ability to move cash out of certain foreign countries, currency regulations and fluctuations, diverse government regulations and tax systems, uncertain or differing interpretations of rights and obligations in connection with international franchise agreements, the collection of royalties and other fees from international franchisees, the inability to protect technology, data or intellectual property rights, compliance with international privacy and information security laws and regulations, the availability and cost of land, construction costs, other legal, financial or regulatory impediments to the development or operation of restaurants, the inability to identify, attract and retain experienced management, qualified franchisees and joint venture partners and ongoing disruptions and impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic. Adverse conditions or unforeseen events in countries that contain a high concentration of Wendy’s restaurants (including Canada, our largest international market), could have a material adverse impact on our international growth strategy and results of operations. In addition, to the extent we invest in international Company-operated restaurants or joint ventures, we would also have the risk of operating losses related to those restaurants, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that our international growth strategy will be successful or that our international operations will be profitable.

For example, Wendy’s entered the United Kingdom in 2021, plans to expand into other anchor markets in Europe utilizing a franchise model and intends to accelerate restaurant development in other existing international markets. New and emerging markets may have lower brand awareness as well as competitive conditions, consumer tastes and preferences, discretionary spending patterns and social and cultural differences that are more difficult to predict or satisfy than our existing markets. We may need to make greater investments than we originally planned in advertising and promotional activity to build brand awareness, which could negatively impact the profitability of our operations. In addition, we may be unable to obtain desirable locations for new restaurants at reasonable prices, or at all, and restaurants may have higher construction, occupancy, food and labor costs than we currently anticipate. Any of these risks and uncertainties, and other factors we cannot anticipate, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Risks Related to Supply Chain and Labor

Changes in commodity costs and other operating costs could adversely affect our results of operations.

Our profitability depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in commodity costs (including beef, chicken, pork, dairy and grains), supplies, fuel, utilities, distribution and other operating costs, including labor costs. Increases in commodity costs have adversely impacted and could continue to adversely impact our results of operations. Our business is susceptible to increases in commodity and other operating costs as a result of various factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions, inflation, industry demand, energy costs, food safety concerns, animal disease outbreaks, product recalls and government regulations. Increasing weather volatility or other long-term changes in weather patterns, including related to climate change, could have a significant impact on the price or availability of some of our ingredients. In addition, our supply chain is subject to increased costs arising from actual or perceived effects of climate change, greenhouse gas emissions and scarcity of energy and water resources. The ongoing and long-term costs of these impacts could have a material adverse effect on our business if not properly mitigated. We could also be adversely impacted by the cost of products raised or grown in accordance with our responsible sourcing criteria, including those related to environmental sustainability and animal welfare, as the availability of products that can be assured to meet those criteria are generally smaller and more concentrated, and may be more costly, than the markets for conventionally raised or grown products that are not assured to meet those criteria. We cannot predict whether we will be able to anticipate and react to changing commodity costs by adjusting our purchasing practices and menu prices, and a failure to do so could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we may not seek to or be able to pass along price increases to our customers. If increased costs were passed to our customers, demand for our products may decrease, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations.

Shortages or interruptions in the supply or distribution of perishable food products could damage our brand and adversely affect our business and results of operations.

Wendy’s and our franchisees are dependent on frequent deliveries of perishable food products that meet brand specifications. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of perishable food products caused by unanticipated demand, problems in production or distribution, labor shortages, disease or food-borne illnesses, political unrest, health epidemics or pandemics, inclement weather or other calamities or conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients, which could lower revenues, increase operating costs, damage brand reputation and otherwise harm our business and the businesses of our franchisees. Certain of the products sold in our restaurants, such as beef and chicken, are sourced from a limited number of suppliers, which may increase our reliance on those suppliers. In addition, our system relies on a limited number of in-line distributors to deliver certain food, packaging and beverage products to our restaurants. If a disruption of service from any of our key suppliers or distributors was to occur, we could experience short-term increases in our costs while
22

supply and distribution channels were adjusted, and we may be unable to identify or negotiate with new suppliers or distributors on terms that are commercially reasonable to us.

We do not exercise ultimate control over purchasing for our restaurant system, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.

While we require and seek to ensure that all suppliers to the Wendy’s system meet certain quality control standards, our franchisees ultimately control the purchasing of food, proprietary paper, equipment and other operating supplies from third party suppliers through QSCC, Wendy’s independent purchasing co-op. QSCC manages, for the Wendy’s system in the United States and Canada, contracts for the purchase and distribution of food, proprietary paper, equipment and other operating supplies under national agreements with pricing based on total system volume. We do not control the decisions and activities of QSCC. If QSCC does not properly estimate the product needs of the Wendy’s system, makes poor purchasing decisions or ceases its operations, or if our relationship with QSCC is terminated for any reason, system sales, operating costs and supply chain management could be adversely affected, which could harm us and our franchisees and have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Our business could be hurt by increased labor costs or labor shortages.

Labor is a primary component in the cost of operating our restaurants. We devote significant resources to recruiting and training our restaurant personnel, including managers and hourly employees. Increased labor costs due to competition, inflationary pressures, increased wages or employee benefits costs (including various federal, state and local actions to increase minimum wages), unionization activity or other factors have adversely impacted and could continue to adversely impact our cost of sales and operating expenses. In addition, Wendy’s success depends on our ability to attract, motivate and retain qualified employees, including restaurant managers and staff as well as employees and key personnel at our restaurant support center, and our inability to do so could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business, results of operations and brand perception could also be adversely impacted by unionization efforts or other campaigns by labor organizations affecting our employees or the employees of our franchisees or by our responses to any such efforts or campaigns.

Our success depends in part upon the continued succession and retention of certain key personnel and the effectiveness of our leadership and organizational structure.

We believe that over time our success has been dependent to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our senior leadership team and other key personnel. Our failure to retain members of our senior leadership team or other key personnel could adversely affect our ability to achieve our growth strategy and other business initiatives. In addition, changes to our leadership and organizational structure can be inherently difficult to manage, and if we are unable to implement such changes effectively, our business, results of operations and financial results could be adversely affected.

Risks Related to Technology and Cybersecurity

There are risks and uncertainties associated with our increasing dependence on digital commerce platforms and technologies and alternative methods of delivery.

Advances in technologies, including advances in digital food ordering and delivery technologies, and changes in consumer behavior driven by such advances could have a negative effect on our business. Technology and consumer offerings continue to develop and evolve, and we expect that new and enhanced technologies and consumer offerings will be available in the future, including those with a focus on restaurant modernization, restaurant technology, digital engagement and integration, online ordering and delivery. Our inability to predict consumer acceptance of new technology or our failure to adequately invest in and implement new technology or adapt to technological developments, industry trends and evolving legal and regulatory requirements could result in a loss of customers and related market share. In addition, our competitors, some of whom have greater resources than we do, may be better able to benefit from changes in technologies or consumer acceptance of such changes, which could harm our competitive position and brand.

An increasing amount of our sales and revenues is derived from digital orders, which includes online ordering and delivery. We have implemented technology and targeted advertising and promotions to support the growth of our digital business. If we are unable to continue to grow our digital business, it may be difficult for us to achieve our planned sales growth. If our digital commerce platforms, including the Wendy’s mobile app and online ordering system, do not meet customers’ expectations in terms of security, privacy, speed, attractiveness or ease of use, customers may be less inclined to return to those platforms,
23

which could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business could also be negatively impacted if we are unable to successfully implement or execute other consumer-facing digital initiatives, such as mobile order pick-up and carryout. We rely on third-party delivery services to fulfill delivery orders, and errors or failures by those providers to make timely deliveries could cause customers to stop ordering from us. The third-party restaurant delivery business is intensely competitive, with a number of companies competing for capital, market share, online traffic and delivery drivers. If the third-party delivery services that we utilize cease or curtail their operations, increase their fees or give greater priority or promotions on their platforms to our competitors, our delivery business and our sales may be negatively impacted. In addition, the delivery business has been consolidating and may continue to consolidate, which may give third-party delivery companies more leverage in negotiating the terms and pricing of contracts, which could in turn negatively impact our profits from this channel.

We are heavily dependent on computer systems and information technology and any material failure, interruption or degradation of our systems or technology or issues with our key technology providers could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.

We are heavily dependent on our computer systems and information technology, including those controlled by third-party providers, to conduct our business, including point-of-sale processing in our restaurants, technologies that support our digital and delivery solutions, management of our supply chain, collection of cash, payment of obligations and various other processes and procedures. Our ability to efficiently manage our business depends significantly on the reliability and performance of our systems and technology. The failure of our systems and technology to operate effectively, or an interruption or degradation in our systems or technology could be harmful and cause delays in customer service, result in the loss of digital sales or data, reduce efficiency or cause delays in operations. Significant capital investments might be required to remediate any such problems or to maintain or upgrade our systems and technology or transition to replacement systems or technology.

We are dependent to a significant extent on our ongoing relationship with key technology providers, including their personnel, resources, technological expertise, systems and technology and their ability to help execute our digital, restaurant technology and enterprise technology initiatives and support our technology innovation and growth initiatives. The inability of us or our providers to successfully execute our technology growth initiatives while maintaining our brand value and perception could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

The occurrence of cyber incidents, or a deficiency in cybersecurity, could negatively impact our brand, business, results of operations and financial condition.

Cybersecurity incidents or breaches have, from time to time, occurred and may in the future occur involving our systems, the systems of our franchisees or the systems of third-party service providers. Such cybersecurity incidents and breaches may include, without limitation, unauthorized access, phishing attacks, account takeovers, denial of service, computer viruses, introduction of malware or ransomware and other disruptive problems caused by malicious actors. As our reliance on technology has increased, so have the risks posed to our systems, both internal and those managed by third parties. Our business involves the collection and retention of customer data, including, in some instances, credit and debit card numbers and other personally identifiable information, in various information systems that we and our franchisees maintain and in those maintained by third parties with whom we and our franchisees contract to provide credit card processing, digital ordering and related services. We also maintain important internal data, such as personally identifiable information about our employees and franchisees and information relating to our operations. Our use of personally identifiable information is regulated by international, federal and state laws, as well as by certain third-party agreements. As privacy and information security laws and regulations change, we will likely incur additional costs to ensure that we remain in compliance with those laws and regulations. If our security and information systems are compromised or if our employees or franchisees fail to comply with these laws, regulations or contract terms, and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect our reputation, disrupt our operations, damage our relationship with customers, franchisees or employees and result in costly litigation, judgments, or penalties resulting from violation of applicable laws and payment card industry regulations. A cyber incident could also require us to notify customers, employees or other groups, result in adverse publicity or a loss in consumer confidence, sales and profits, increase fees payable to third parties or cause us to incur penalties or remediation and other costs that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have devoted considerable resources to secure our systems and technology against security breaches and have implemented various processes, procedures and controls to help mitigate the risk of a cyber incident. However, the techniques and sophistication used to conduct cyber-attacks change frequently and the measures we have taken do not guarantee that a cyber incident or security breach could not occur or that our business, reputation and financial condition will not be adversely affected.

24

Risks Related to Our Indebtedness

The Company and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to various restrictions, and substantially all of the assets of certain subsidiaries are security, under the terms of a securitized financing facility.

Wendy’s Funding, LLC, a limited-purpose, bankruptcy-remote, wholly owned indirect subsidiary of the Company, is the master issuer (the “Master Issuer”) of outstanding senior secured notes under a securitized financing facility entered into in June 2015. Under the facility, the Master Issuer issued and has outstanding certain series of fixed rate and variable funding notes (collectively, the “Senior Notes”). The Senior Notes are secured by a security interest in substantially all of the assets of the Master Issuer and certain other limited-purpose, bankruptcy-remote, wholly-owned indirect subsidiaries of the Company that act as guarantors (collectively, the “Securitization Entities”), except for certain real estate assets and subject to certain limitations as set forth in the indenture governing the Senior Notes (the “Indenture”) and the related guarantee and collateral agreement. The assets of the Securitization Entities include most of the domestic and certain of the foreign revenue-generating assets of the Company and its subsidiaries, which principally consist of franchise-related agreements, real estate assets, intellectual property and license agreements for the use of intellectual property.

The Senior Notes are subject to a series of covenants and restrictions customary for transactions of this type, including that the Master Issuer maintains specified reserve accounts to be used to make required payments in respect of the Senior Notes, provisions relating to optional and mandatory prepayments and the related payment of specified amounts, including specified make-whole payments under certain circumstances, certain indemnification payments in the event, among other things, that the assets pledged as collateral for the Senior Notes are in stated ways defective or ineffective and covenants relating to recordkeeping, access to information and similar matters. The Senior Notes are also subject to customary rapid amortization events provided for in the Indenture, including events tied to failure to maintain stated debt service coverage ratios, the sum of global gross sales for specified restaurants being below certain levels on certain measurement dates, certain manager termination events, the occurrence of an event of default and the failure to repay or refinance on the applicable scheduled maturity date. The Senior Notes are also subject to certain customary events of default, including events relating to non-payment of required interest, principal or other amounts due on or with respect to the Senior Notes, failure to comply with covenants within certain time frames, certain bankruptcy events, breaches of specified representations and warranties, the trustee under the Indenture ceasing to have valid and perfected security interests in certain collateral and certain judgments. In the event that a rapid amortization event occurs under the Indenture (including, without limitation, upon an event of default under the Indenture or the failure to repay the securitized debt at the end of the applicable term), the funds available to the Company would be reduced or eliminated, which would in turn reduce our ability to operate or grow our business.

In addition, the Indenture and the related management agreement contain various covenants that limit the Company and its subsidiaries’ ability to engage in specified types of transactions, subject to certain exceptions, including, for example, to incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, sell certain assets, create or incur liens on certain assets to secure indebtedness or consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of their assets. As a result of these restrictions, the Company may not have adequate resources or flexibility to continue to manage the business and provide for growth of the Wendy’s system, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s future growth prospects, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.

We have a significant amount of debt outstanding, and such indebtedness could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.

As of January 1, 2023, the Company had approximately $2.9 billion of outstanding debt on its balance sheet. Additionally, a subsidiary of the Company has issued variable funding notes, which allows for the borrowing of up to $300.0 million from time to time on a revolving basis. This level of debt could have significant consequences on the Company’s future operations, including: (i) making it more difficult to meet payment and other obligations under outstanding debt; (ii) resulting in an event of default if the Company’s subsidiaries fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in debt agreements, which event of default could result in all of the Company’s subsidiaries’ debt becoming immediately due and payable; (iii) reducing the availability of the Company’s cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, equity and debt repurchases, dividends, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; (iv) subjecting the Company to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases on indebtedness with variable interest rates; (v) limiting the Company’s flexibility in planning for or reacting to, and increasing its vulnerability to, changes in the Company’s business or industry or the general economy; and (vi) placing the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that are less leveraged. Further, the Company’s outstanding variable funding notes may accrue interest based on the London interbank offered rate (“LIBOR”). In connection with the
25

discontinuance of LIBOR, we expect to renegotiate certain loan documents and cannot predict what alternative index will be negotiated with our lenders or the resulting impact on our interest expense.

The ability of the Company to make payments on, repay or refinance its debt, and to fund planned capital expenditures, dividends and other cash needs will depend largely upon its future operating performance and ability to generate significant cash flows. In addition, the ability of the Company to borrow funds in the future to make payments on its debt will depend on the satisfaction of the covenants in the securitized financing facility and other debt agreements, and other agreements it may enter into in the future. There can be no assurance that the Company’s business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available under the Company’s securitized financing facility or other debt agreements or from other sources in an amount sufficient to enable the Company to pay its debt or to fund its dividend and other liquidity needs.

In addition to the Company’s outstanding indebtedness, the Company is subject to risks related to certain commitments, guarantees and other liabilities. These commitments, guarantees and other liabilities include, among others, significant contractual requirements regarding the purchase of soft drinks and guarantees and contingent liabilities related to certain franchisee leases for which the Company has been indemnified. These commitments, guarantees and other liabilities could have an adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity and the ability of its subsidiaries to meet payment obligations. The Company may incur additional indebtedness, guarantees, commitments or other liabilities in the future that could amplify the risks that the Company currently faces.

Risks Related to Our Common Stock

There can be no assurance regarding whether or to what extent we will pay dividends on our common stock in the future.

Holders of our common stock will only be entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Any dividends will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our earnings, financial condition, cash requirements and such other factors as the Board may deem relevant from time to time. In addition, because Wendy’s is a holding company, its ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent upon cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments on hand and cash flows from its subsidiaries. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay cash dividends to the holding company is dependent upon their ability to achieve sufficient cash flows after satisfying their respective cash requirements, including the requirements and restrictions under our securitized financing facility and other debt agreements.

A substantial amount of our common stock is concentrated in the hands of certain stockholders.

Nelson Peltz, our Chairman, Peter May, our Senior Vice Chairman, Matthew Peltz, our Vice Chairman, and Edward Garden, a former director of the Company, beneficially own shares of our outstanding common stock that collectively constitute approximately 20% of the Company’s total voting power as of February 21, 2023. These individuals may, from time to time, acquire beneficial ownership of additional shares of common stock.

On December 1, 2011, the Company entered into an agreement (the “Trian Agreement”) with Messrs. N. Peltz, May and Garden, and several of their affiliates (the “Covered Persons”). Pursuant to the Trian Agreement, our Board of Directors, including a majority of the independent directors, approved, for purposes of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Covered Persons becoming the owners (as defined in Section 203(c)(9)) of or acquiring an aggregate of up to (and including), but not more than, 32.5% (subject to certain adjustments set forth in the Trian Agreement) of the outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock, such that no such persons would be subject to the restrictions set forth in Section 203 solely as a result of such ownership. This concentration of ownership gives these individuals significant influence over the outcome of actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets. They are also in a position to have significant influence to prevent or cause a change in control of the Company.

Our certificate of incorporation contains certain anti-takeover provisions and permits our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and limits our ability to raise capital from affiliates.

Certain provisions in our certificate of incorporation are intended to discourage or delay a hostile takeover of control of the Company. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of shares of “blank check” preferred stock, which will have such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our Board of Directors. Accordingly, our
26

Board of Directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power and other rights of the holders of our common stock. The preferred stock could be used to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of the Company that is determined by the Board of Directors to be undesirable. Our certificate of incorporation prohibits the issuance of preferred stock to affiliates, unless offered ratably to the holders of our common stock, subject to an exception in the event that the Company is in financial distress and the issuance is approved by the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. This prohibition limits our ability to raise capital from affiliates.

General Business Risks

Complaints or litigation could hurt our brand, business, results of operations and financial condition.

Wendy’s customers may file complaints or lawsuits against us or our franchisees alleging that we are responsible for an illness or injury they suffered at or after a visit to a Wendy’s restaurant, or alleging that there was a problem with food safety, food quality or operations at a Wendy’s restaurant. We may also be subject to a variety of other claims arising in the ordinary course of our business, including personal injury claims, contract claims, claims from franchisees, intellectual property claims, data privacy claims and claims alleging violations of law regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters, including class action lawsuits. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are found to be liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert management’s attention away from operations, hurt our performance and have a negative impact on our brand. While we believe we have adequate accruals for all of our legal and environmental matters, we cannot estimate the aggregate possible range of loss for our existing litigation and claims due to various reasons, including, but not limited to, many proceedings being in preliminary stages, with various motions either yet to be submitted or pending, discovery yet to occur, and significant factual matters unresolved. In addition, most cases seek an indeterminate amount of damages and many involve multiple parties. Predicting the outcomes of settlement discussions or judicial or arbitral decisions are thus inherently difficult. Insurance policies contain customary limitations, conditions and exclusions that can affect the amount of insurance proceeds ultimately received. A judgment significantly in excess of our insurance coverage for any claims could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, the restaurant industry has been subject to a number of claims alleging that the menus and actions of restaurant chains have contributed to the obesity or otherwise adversely impacted the health of certain of their customers. Adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may harm the reputation of our restaurants, even if the allegations are not directed against our restaurants or are not valid. Moreover, complaints, litigation or adverse publicity experienced by one or more of our franchisees could also hurt our brand or business as a whole.

Existing and changing legal and regulatory requirements, as well as an increasing focus on environmental, social and governance issues, could adversely affect our brand, business, results of operations and financial condition.

Each Wendy’s restaurant is subject to licensing and regulation by health, sanitation, safety and other agencies in the state or municipality in which the restaurant is located, as well as to federal laws, rules and regulations and requirements of non-governmental entities such as payment card industry rules. Governmental authorities may enact laws, rules or regulations that impact restaurant operations and the cost of conducting those operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that we and our franchisees will not experience material difficulties or failures in obtaining the necessary licenses or approvals for opening new restaurants. More stringent and varied requirements of local regulators with respect to tax, zoning, land use and environmental factors could also delay or prevent development of new restaurants in particular locations.

We are subject to various laws and regulations that govern the offer and sale of a franchise, including rules by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. Various state, provincial and foreign laws regulate certain aspects of the franchise relationship, including terminations and the refusal to renew franchises. The failure to comply with these laws and regulations in any jurisdiction or to obtain required government approvals could result in a ban or temporary suspension on future franchise sales, fines and penalties or require us to make offers of rescission or restitution, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We could also face lawsuits by franchisees based upon alleged violations of these laws. We and our franchisees are each also subject to laws and regulations that govern employment matters at the federal/national, state/provincial and local levels. In the United States, this includes laws like the Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, Title VII, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the National Labor Relations Act, family leave, paid sick time and similar requirements and a variety of other laws, regulations and rules. Changes in laws, regulations, rules and governmental policies, including the interpretation thereof, could increase our costs, require modifications to our business practices, result in increased litigation, investigations, enforcement actions, fines or liabilities and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in the legal framework of employment or franchise liability could negatively impact our business, particularly if such
27

changes result in any law, rule, regulation, governmental policy or interpretation or judicial decision determining that Wendy’s is an employer of its franchisees or a joint employer with our franchisees or otherwise imposing liability for employment-related claims or impacting our employment relationships based on theories of joint employer liability or other theories of vicarious liability. In addition, various state and local laws may require wage increases and impose working hour and working condition standards that could result in increased costs, limit our or our franchisees’ ability to respond to market conditions and negatively impact our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified franchisees to operate or open restaurants in the impacted markets. If we are unable to effectively manage the risks associated with this complex legislative and regulatory environment, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.

We are also subject to legal and compliance risks related to privacy and data collection, protection and management of certain data and information associated with our technology-related services and platforms made available to customers, employees, franchisees, business partners or other third parties. We are subject to a variety of U.S. federal and state and foreign laws and regulations in this area. These laws and regulations have been subject to frequent change, and there may be jurisdictions that propose or enact new data privacy requirements in the future. Failure to meet applicable data privacy requirements could result in legal proceedings and substantial penalties and adversely impact our business and financial condition. Additionally, evolving laws and regulations could require us and our franchisees to change or limit the way we collect or use information in operating our business, which may result in additional costs, limit our marketing or growth strategies and adversely affect our business and results of operations.

There has been increasing public focus by investors, environmental activists, the media and governmental and nongovernmental organizations on environmental, social and governance matters, including packaging and waste, animal health and welfare, human rights, diversity, climate change, greenhouse gases and land, energy and water use. As a result, we have experienced increased pressure and expectations to provide expanded disclosure and establish commitments, goals or targets with respect to various environmental, social and governance issues and to take the actions necessary to meet those commitments, goals and targets. Furthermore, the standards by which certain environmental, social and governance issues are measured are evolving and subject to frequent change. If we are not effective, or perceived to be effective, in achieving our commitments, goals or targets or otherwise addressing various environmental, social and governance matters, consumer trust in our brand may suffer. In addition, the actions needed to achieve our commitments, goals and targets could result in market, operational, execution and other costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. Our results of operation and financial condition could be adversely impacted if we are unable to effectively manage the risks or costs to us, our franchisees and our supply chain associated with environmental, social and governance matters.

Our current insurance may not provide adequate levels of coverage against claims that have been or may be filed.

We currently maintain insurance that we believe to be adequate for businesses of our size and type. However, there are types of losses we could encounter that cannot be insured against or that we believe are not economically reasonable to insure, such as losses due to natural disasters, acts of terrorism or the declaration of war. In addition, we currently self-insure a significant portion of expected losses under workers’ compensation, general liability, products liability, auto liability and property insurance programs. Unanticipated changes in the actuarial assumptions and management estimates underlying our reserves for these losses could result in materially different amounts of expense, which could harm our business and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We also currently maintain insurance coverage to address cyber incidents. Applicable insurance policies contain customary limitations, conditions and exclusions, and there can be no assurance that our cyber insurance policies will cover substantially all of the costs and expenses related to any previous or future cyber incidents. In addition, our future insurance premiums may increase, and we may be unable to obtain similar levels of insurance on reasonable terms, or at all, due to challenging conditions in the insurance industry. Any inadequacy of, or inability to obtain, insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition.

Changes in accounting standards, or the recognition of impairment or other charges, could adversely affect our future results of operations.

New accounting standards or changes in financial reporting requirements, accounting principles or practices, including with respect to our critical accounting estimates, could adversely affect our future results. We may also be affected by the nature and timing of decisions about underperforming markets or assets, including decisions that result in impairment or other charges that reduce our earnings. In assessing the recoverability of our long-lived assets, goodwill and intangible assets, we consider changes in economic conditions and make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors. These estimates are highly subjective and can be significantly impacted by many factors such as business and economic conditions, operating costs, inflation, competition, consumer and demographic trends and restructuring activities. If our estimates or underlying assumptions change in the future, or if the operating performance or cash flows of our business decline, we may be
28

required to record impairment charges, which could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results for the affected periods.

Tax matters, including changes in tax rates or laws, imposition of new taxes, disagreements with taxing authorities and unanticipated tax liabilities, could impact our results of operations and financial condition.

We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and foreign jurisdictions, and our operations, plans and results are affected by tax matters and initiatives around the world. In particular, we are affected by the impact of changes to tax rates, laws or policies or related authoritative interpretations. We are also impacted by the settlement of adjustments proposed by taxing and governmental authorities in connection with our tax reviews and audits, all of which will depend on their timing, nature and scope. While we believe our recorded provision for income taxes properly reflects all applicable tax laws as currently enacted, there can be no assurance that we would be successful in challenging adjustments by the relevant tax authorities. Any significant increases in income tax rates, changes in income tax laws or unfavorable resolution of tax matters could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.

Our operations are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.

Most of our revenues, costs and indebtedness is denominated in U.S. dollars, which is also our reporting currency. Our international operations that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar are translated to U.S. dollars for our financial reporting purposes and are impacted by fluctuations in currency exchange rates and changes in currency regulations. Our exposures to foreign currency risk are primarily related to fluctuations in the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar for our Canadian operations. Unfavorable currency fluctuations could reduce our royalty income and revenues. While we attempt to minimize our foreign currency risks, our risk management strategies may not be effective and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.

Our results can be adversely affected by unforeseen events, such as adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities, social unrest, health epidemics or pandemics or other catastrophic events.

Unforeseen events, such as adverse weather conditions (including related to climate change), natural disasters, hostilities (including acts of war, terrorist activities and public or workplace violence), social unrest, health epidemics or pandemics or other catastrophic events can adversely affect consumer spending, consumer confidence, restaurant sales and operations, supply chains and our ability to perform corporate or support functions at our restaurant support center, any of which could affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.

None.

Item 2. Properties.

We believe that our properties, taken as a whole, are generally well maintained and are adequate for our current and foreseeable business needs.

The following table contains information about our principal office facilities as of January 1, 2023:
ACTIVE FACILITIES		FACILITIES LOCATION		LAND TITLE		APPROXIMATE SQ. FT. OF FLOOR SPACE
Corporate Headquarters		Dublin, Ohio		Owned		324,025 		*
Wendy’s Restaurants of Canada Inc.		Burlington, Ontario, Canada		Leased		8,917 		**
 
_____________________

*    QSCC, Wendy’s independent supply chain purchasing co-op, leases 18,774 square feet of this space from Wendy’s. The Corporate Headquarters serves all of our operating segments.
**    The Wendy’s Restaurants of Canada Inc. facility primarily serves the International operating segment.

At January 1, 2023, Wendy’s and its franchisees operated 7,095 Wendy’s restaurants. Of the 403 Company-operated restaurants in the Wendy’s U.S. segment, Wendy’s owned the land and building for 158 restaurants, owned the building and held long-term land leases for 143 restaurants and held leases covering the land and building for 102 restaurants. Wendy’s also
29

held leases covering the land and building for each of the 12 Company-operated restaurants in the Wendy’s International segment. Lease terms are generally initially between 15 and 20 years and, in most cases, provide for rent escalations and renewal options. Certain leases contain contingent rent provisions that require additional rental payments based upon restaurant sales volume in excess of specified amounts. As part of the Global Real Estate & Development segment, Wendy’s also owned 488 and leased 1,199 properties that were either leased or subleased principally to franchisees as of January 1, 2023. Surplus land and buildings are generally held for sale and are not material to our financial condition or results of operations.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

The Company is involved in litigation and claims incidental to our business. We provide accruals for such litigation and claims when we determine it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the loss is reasonably estimable. The Company believes it has adequate accruals for all of its legal and environmental matters. We cannot estimate the aggregate possible range of loss for our existing litigation and claims due to various reasons, including, but not limited to, many proceedings being in preliminary stages, with various motions either yet to be submitted or pending, discovery yet to occur, and significant factual matters unresolved. In addition, most cases seek an indeterminate amount of damages and many involve multiple parties. Predicting the outcomes of settlement discussions or judicial or arbitral decisions is thus inherently difficult and future developments could cause these actions or claims, individually or in aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows of a particular reporting period.

Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.

Not applicable.
30

PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.

The Company’s common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market (“Nasdaq”) under the symbol “WEN.”

The Company’s common stock is entitled to one vote per share on all matters on which stockholders are entitled to vote. The Company has no class of equity securities currently issued and outstanding except for its common stock. However, the Company is currently authorized to issue up to 100 million shares of preferred stock.

The Company paid quarterly cash dividends of $.09, $.10, $.12 and $.12 per share of common stock during the first, second, third and fourth quarters of 2021, respectively. The Company paid quarterly cash dividends of $.125 per share of common stock during each of the first, second, third and fourth quarters of 2022.

During the first quarter of 2023, the Company declared a dividend of $.25 per share of common stock to be paid on March 15, 2023 to stockholders of record as of March 1, 2023. Although the Company currently intends to continue to declare and pay quarterly cash dividends, there can be no assurance that any additional quarterly cash dividends will be declared or paid or as to the amount or timing of such dividends, if any. Future dividend payments, if any, will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be based on such factors as the Company’s earnings, financial condition and cash requirements and other factors.

As of February 21, 2023, there were approximately 20,115 holders of record of the Company’s common stock.

The following table provides information with respect to repurchases of shares of our common stock by us and our “affiliated purchasers” (as defined in Rule 10b-18(a)(3) under the Exchange Act) during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2022:

Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities
Period	Total Number of Shares Purchased (1)	Average Price Paid per Share	Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plan	Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plan (2)
October 3, 2022
through
November 6, 2022	7,604 		$	19.27 		— 		$	198,088,626 	
November 7, 2022
through
December 4, 2022	1,161 		$	20.83 		— 		$	198,088,626 	
December 5, 2022
through
January 1, 2023	729 		$	23.22 		— 		$	198,088,626 	
Total	9,494 		$	19.77 		— 		$	198,088,626 	
 

(1)Represents shares of common stock reacquired by the Company from holders of share-based awards to satisfy certain requirements associated with the vesting or exercise of the respective award. The shares were valued at the fair market value of the Company’s common stock on the vesting or exercise date of such awards, as set forth in the applicable plan document.

(2)In February 2022, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $100.0 million of our common stock through February 28, 2023, when and if market conditions warranted and to the extent legally permissible (the “February 2022 Authorization”). In April 2022, our Board of Directors approved an increase of $150.0 million to the February 2022 Authorization, resulting in an aggregate authorization of $250.0 million. In January 2023, our Board of Directors authorized a repurchase program for up to $500.0 million of our common stock through February 28, 2027, when and if market conditions warrant and to the extent legally permissible (the “January 2023 Authorization”). In connection with the January 2023 Authorization, the remaining portion of the February 2022 Authorization was canceled.

31

Subsequent to January 1, 2023 through February 21, 2023, the Company repurchased 0.6 million shares under the January 2023 Authorization with an aggregate purchase price of $12.9 million, excluding commissions.

Item 6. [Reserved]

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Introduction

This “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of The Wendy’s Company (“The Wendy’s Company” and, together with its subsidiaries, the “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our”) should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere within this report. Certain statements we make under this Item 7 constitute “forward-looking statements” under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Projections” in “Part I” preceding “Item 1 - Business.” You should consider our forward-looking statements in light of the risks discussed under the heading “Risk Factors” in Item 1A above, as well as our consolidated financial statements, related notes and other financial information appearing elsewhere in this report and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).

The Wendy’s Company is the parent company of its 100% owned subsidiary holding company, Wendy’s Restaurants, LLC (“Wendy’s Restaurants”). Wendy’s Restaurants is the parent company of Wendy’s International, LLC (formerly known as Wendy’s International, Inc). Wendy’s International, LLC is the indirect parent company of (1) Quality Is Our Recipe, LLC (“Quality”), which is the owner and franchisor of the Wendy’s restaurant system in the United States (the “U.S.”) and all international jurisdictions except for Canada, and (2) Wendy’s Restaurants of Canada Inc., which is the owner and franchisor of the Wendy’s restaurant system in Canada. As used herein, unless the context requires otherwise, the term “Company” refers to The Wendy’s Company and its direct and indirect subsidiaries, and “Wendy’s” refers to Quality when the context relates to the ownership or franchising of the Wendy’s restaurant system and to Wendy’s International, LLC when the context refers to the Wendy’s brand.

Wendy’s is primarily engaged in the business of operating, developing and franchising a system of distinctive quick-service restaurants serving high quality food. Wendy’s opened its first restaurant in Columbus, Ohio in 1969. Today, Wendy’s is the second largest quick-service restaurant company in the hamburger sandwich segment in the U.S. based on traffic share, and the third largest globally with 7,095 restaurants in the U.S. and 31 foreign countries and U.S. territories as of January 1, 2023.

The Company is comprised of the following segments: (1) Wendy’s U.S., (2) Wendy’s International and (3) Global Real Estate & Development. Wendy’s U.S. includes the operation and franchising of Wendy’s restaurants in the U.S. and derives its revenues from sales at Company-operated restaurants and royalties, fees and advertising fund collections from franchised restaurants. Wendy’s International includes the operation and franchising of Wendy’s restaurants in countries and territories other than the U.S. and derives its revenues from sales at Company-operated restaurants and royalties, fees and advertising fund collections from franchised restaurants. Global Real Estate & Development includes real estate activity for owned sites and sites leased from third parties, which are leased and/or subleased to franchisees, and also includes our share of the income of our TimWen real estate joint venture. In addition, Global Real Estate & Development earns fees from facilitating franchisee-to-franchisee restaurant transfers (“Franchise Flips”) and providing other development-related services to franchisees. In this Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” the Company reports on the segment profit for each of the three segments described above. The Company measures segment profit using segment adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”). Segment adjusted EBITDA excludes certain unallocated general and administrative expenses and other items that vary from period to period without correlation to the Company’s core operating performance. See “Results of Operations” below and Note 27 of the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in Item 8 herein for segment financial information.

The Company’s fiscal reporting periods consist of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Sunday closest to December 31 and are referred to herein as (1) “the year ended January 1, 2023” or “2022,” which consisted of 52 weeks, (2) “the year ended January 2, 2022” or “2021,” which consisted of 52 weeks, and (3) “the year ended January 3, 2021” or “2020,” which consisted of 53 weeks. All references to years, quarters and months relate to fiscal periods rather than calendar periods.

32

Executive Overview

Our Business

As of January 1, 2023, the Wendy’s restaurant system was comprised of 7,095 restaurants, with 5,994 Wendy’s restaurants in operation in the U.S. Of the U.S. restaurants, 403 were operated by the Company and 5,591 were operated by a total of 217 franchisees. In addition, at January 1, 2023, there were 1,101 Wendy’s restaurants in operation in 31 foreign countries and U.S. territories. Of the international restaurants, 1,089 were operated by 106 franchisees and 12 were operated by the Company in the United Kingdom (the “U.K.”).

The revenues from our restaurant business are derived from two principal sources: (1) sales at Company-operated restaurants and (2) franchise-related revenues, including royalties, national advertising funds contributions, rents and franchise fees received from Wendy’s franchised restaurants. Company-operated restaurants comprised approximately 5% of the total Wendy’s system as of January 1, 2023.

Wendy’s operating results are impacted by a number of external factors, including commodity costs, labor costs, intense price competition, unemployment and consumer spending levels, general economic and market trends and weather. The COVID-19 pandemic has had and may continue to have the effect of heightening the impact of many of these factors. See “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Projections” in “Part I” preceding “Item 1 - Business” for additional information.

Wendy’s long-term growth opportunities include delivering accelerated global growth through (1) driving strong same-restaurant sales momentum across all dayparts, (2) accelerating our implementation of consumer-facing digital platforms and technologies and (3) expanding the Company’s footprint through global restaurant expansion.

Key Business Measures

We track our results of operations and manage our business using the following key business measures, which include non-GAAP financial measures:

•Same-Restaurant Sales - We report same-restaurant sales commencing after new restaurants have been open for 15 continuous months and as soon as reimaged restaurants reopen. Restaurants temporarily closed for more than one week are excluded from same-restaurant sales. For 2020, same-restaurant sales excluded the impact of a 53rd operating week. For 2020, same-restaurant sales compared the 52 weeks from December 30, 2019 through December 27, 2020 to the 52 weeks from December 31, 2018 through December 29, 2019. For 2021, same-restaurant sales compared the 52 weeks from January 4, 2021 through January 2, 2022 to the 52 weeks from January 6, 2020 through January 3, 2021. This methodology is consistent with the metric used by our management for internal reporting and analysis. The table summarizing same-restaurant sales below in “Results of Operations” provides the same-restaurant sales percent changes.

•Restaurant Margin - We define restaurant margin as sales from Company-operated restaurants less cost of sales divided by sales from Company-operated restaurants. Cost of sales includes food and paper, restaurant labor and occupancy, advertising and other operating costs. Cost of sales excludes certain costs that support restaurant operations that are not allocated to individual restaurants, which are included in “General and administrative.” Cost of sales also excludes depreciation and amortization expense and impairment of long-lived assets. Therefore, as restaurant margin as presented excludes certain costs as described above, its usefulness may be limited and may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures of other companies in our industry.

Restaurant margin is influenced by factors such as price increases, the effectiveness of our advertising and marketing initiatives, featured products, product mix, fluctuations in food and labor costs, restaurant openings, remodels and closures and the level of our fixed and semi-variable costs.

•Systemwide Sales - Systemwide sales is a non-GAAP financial measure, which includes sales by both Company-operated restaurants and franchised restaurants. Franchised restaurants’ sales are reported by our franchisees and represent their revenues from sales at franchised Wendy’s restaurants. The Company’s consolidated financial statements do not include sales by franchised restaurants to their customers. The Company’s royalty and advertising funds revenues are computed as percentages of sales made by Wendy’s franchisees. As a result, sales by Wendy’s franchisees have a direct effect on the Company’s royalty and advertising funds revenues and profitability.
33


•Average Unit Volumes - We calculate Company-operated restaurant average unit volumes by summing the average weekly sales of all Company-operated restaurants which reported sales during the week. Average unit volumes exclude the impact of the 53rd week of 2020. For 2020, average unit volumes are calculated using the 52 weeks from December 30, 2019 through December 27, 2020.

Franchised restaurant average unit volumes is a non-GAAP financial measure, which includes sales by franchised restaurants, which are reported by our franchisees and represent their revenues from sales at franchised Wendy’s restaurants. The Company’s consolidated financial statements do not include sales by franchised restaurants to their customers. We calculate franchised restaurant average unit volumes by summing the average weekly sales of all franchised restaurants which reported sales during the week.

The Company calculates same-restaurant sales and systemwide sales growth on a constant currency basis. Constant currency results exclude the impact of foreign currency translation and are derived by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates. The Company believes excluding the impact of foreign currency translation provides better year over year comparability.

Same-restaurant sales and systemwide sales exclude sales from Argentina and Venezuela due to the highly inflationary economies of those countries. The Company considers economies that have had cumulative inflation in excess of 100% over a three-year period as highly inflationary.

The Company believes its presentation of same-restaurant sales, restaurant margin, systemwide sales and average unit volumes, including franchised restaurant average unit volumes, provide a meaningful perspective of the underlying operating performance of the Company’s current business and enables investors to better understand and evaluate the Company’s historical and prospective operating performance. The Company believes that these metrics are important supplemental measures of operating performance because they highlight trends in the Company’s business that may not otherwise be apparent when relying solely on GAAP financial measures. The Company believes investors, analysts and other interested parties use these metrics in evaluating issuers and that the presentation of these measures facilitates a comparative assessment of the Company’s operating performance. With respect to same-restaurant sales, systemwide sales and franchised restaurant average unit volumes, the Company also believes that the data is useful in assessing consumer demand for the Company’s products and the overall success of the Wendy’s brand.

The non-GAAP financial measures discussed above do not replace the presentation of the Company’s financial results in accordance with GAAP. Because all companies do not calculate non-GAAP financial measures in the same way, these measures as used by other companies may not be consistent with the way the Company calculates such measures.

2022 Financial Highlights

•Revenue increased 10.5% to $2.1 billion in 2022 compared to $1.9 billion in 2021;

•Global same-restaurant sales increased 4.9%, U.S. same-restaurant sales increased 3.9% and international same-restaurant sales increased 12.4% compared to 2021. On a two-year basis, global same-restaurant sales increased 14.9%;

•Global Company-operated restaurant margin was 13.8% in 2022, a decrease of 290 basis points compared to 2021; and

•Net income decreased 11.5% to $177.4 million in 2022 compared to $200.4 million in 2021.

Global Same-Restaurant Sales

Wendy’s long-term growth opportunities include driving strong same-restaurant sales momentum across all dayparts through our ownable core products, exciting menu innovation, compelling value offerings and improvements in speed and consistency in our restaurants. Global same-restaurant sales increased 4.9% during 2022.

Digital

Wendy’s long-term growth opportunities include accelerated implementation of consumer-facing digital platforms and technologies. Over the past several years, the Company has invested significant resources to focus on consumer-facing
34

technology, including activating mobile ordering via Wendy’s mobile app, launching the Wendy’s Rewards loyalty program in the U.S. and Canada and establishing delivery agreements with third-party vendors. The Company is also partnering with key technology providers to help execute our digital, restaurant technology and enterprise technology initiatives and support our technology innovation and growth. The Company’s digital business represented approximately 10.3% of global systemwide sales during 2022.

New Restaurant Development

Wendy’s long-term growth opportunities include expanding the Company’s footprint through global restaurant expansion. To promote new restaurant development, the Company has provided franchisees with certain incentive programs for qualifying new restaurants. In February 2023, the Company announced a new restaurant development incentive program in the U.S. and Canada that provides for waivers of royalty, national advertising and technical assistance fees for up to the first three years of operation for qualifying new restaurants. In addition, the Company has development agreements in place with a number of franchisees that contractually obligate such franchisees to open additional Wendy’s restaurants over a specified timeframe. During 2022, the Company and its franchisees added 146 net new restaurants across the Wendy’s system.

Organizational Redesign

On February 16, 2023, the Board of Directors approved a plan to redesign the Company’s organizational structure to better support the execution of the Company’s long-term growth strategy by maximizing organizational efficiency and streamlining decision making. As a result of the redesign, the Company expects to hold its general and administrative expense in 2023 and 2024 relatively flat compared with 2022. The Company expects to incur total costs of approximately $11 million to $13 million related to these savings, of which approximately $9 million to $11 million will be cash expenditures. The cash expenditures are expected to continue into 2025, with approximately two-thirds of the total cash expenditures occurring in 2023. Costs related to the plan are recorded to “Reorganization and realignment costs.” The total costs expected to be incurred are comprised of (1) severance and related employee costs of approximately $8 million, (2) recruitment and relocation costs of approximately $1 million, (3) third-party and other costs of approximately $1 million and (4) share-based compensation of approximately $2 million. The Company expects costs to be recognized during 2023 and continue into 2026, with approximately three-fourths to be recognized during 2023.

Debt Financing

On April 1, 2022, the Company completed a debt financing transaction under which the Company issued fixed rate senior secured notes in the following 2022-1 series: Class A-2-I with an interest rate of 4.236% and initial principal amount of $100.0 million (the “Class A-2-I Notes”) and Class A-2-II with an interest rate of 4.535% and initial principal amount of $400.0 million (the “Class A-2-II Notes”). The anticipated repayment dates of the Class A-2-I Notes and the Class A-2-II Notes will be March 2029 and March 2032, respectively. See Note 12 of the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in Item 8 herein for further information on the Company’s debt financing transaction.
35

This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses 2022 and 2021 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2022 and 2021. For discussion related to 2020 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2021 and 2020 that are not included in this Form 10-K, please refer to Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2021 Form 10-K, filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1, 2022.

Results of Operations

The tables included throughout this Results of Operations section set forth in millions (except as otherwise indicated) the Company’s consolidated results of operations for the years ended January 1, 2023, January 2, 2022 and January 3, 2021. Except as noted below, the Company’s consolidated results of operations described below includes the benefit of the 53rd week in 2020.
2022		2021		2020
Amount		Change		Amount		Change		Amount
Revenues:									
Sales	$	896.6 			$	162.5 			$	734.1 			$	11.3 			$	722.8 	
Franchise royalty revenue and fees	558.2 			21.5 			536.7 			92.0 			444.7 	
Franchise rental income	234.5 			(2.2)			236.7 			4.1 			232.6 	
Advertising funds revenue	406.2 			16.7 			389.5 			55.8 			333.7 	
2,095.5 			198.5 			1,897.0 			163.2 			1,733.8 	
Costs and expenses:					 				
Cost of sales	773.2 			161.5 			611.7 			(3.2)			614.9 	
Franchise support and other costs	46.7 			3.8 			42.9 			16.4 			26.5 	
Franchise rental expense	124.1 			(8.3)			132.4 			6.8 			125.6 	
Advertising funds expense	430.8 			19.0 			411.8 			66.4 			345.4 	
General and administrative	255.0 			12.0 			243.0 			36.1 			206.9 	
Depreciation and amortization (exclusive of amortization of cloud computing arrangements shown separately below)	133.4 			7.9 			125.5 			(7.3)			132.8 	
Amortization of cloud computing arrangements	2.4 			2.4 			— 			— 			— 	
System optimization gains, net	(6.8)			26.7 			(33.5)			(30.4)			(3.1)	
Reorganization and realignment costs	0.7 			(7.8)			8.5 			(7.5)			16.0 	
Impairment of long-lived assets	6.4 			4.1 			2.3 			(5.7)			8.0 	
Other operating income, net	(23.7)			(9.1)			(14.6)			(6.1)			(8.5)	
1,742.2 			212.2 			1,530.0 			65.5 			1,464.5 	
Operating profit	353.3 			(13.7)			367.0 			97.7 			269.3 	
Interest expense, net	(122.3)			(13.1)			(109.2)			8.5 			(117.7)	
Loss on early extinguishment of debt	— 			17.9 			(17.9)			(17.9)			— 	
Investment income (loss), net	2.1 			2.1 			— 			0.2 			(0.2)	
Other income, net	10.4 			9.7 			0.7 			(0.7)			1.4 	
Income before income taxes
243.5 			2.9 			240.6 			87.8 			152.8 	
Provision for income taxes	(66.1)			(25.9)			(40.2)			(5.2)			(35.0)	
Net income	$	177.4 			$	(23.0)			$	200.4 			$	82.6 			$	117.8 	
 

36

2022		% of Total Revenues		2021		% of Total Revenues		2020		% of Total Revenues
Revenues:											
Sales	$	896.6 			42.8 	%		$	734.1 			38.7 	%		$	722.8 			41.7 	%
Franchise royalty revenue and fees:											
Franchise royalty revenue	485.5 			23.2 	%		460.7 			24.3 	%		416.5 			24.0 	%
Franchise fees	72.7 			3.4 	%		76.0 			4.0 	%		28.2 			1.7 	%
Total franchise royalty revenue and fees
558.2 			26.6 	%		536.7 			28.3 	%		444.7 			25.7 	%
Franchise rental income	234.5 			11.2 	%		236.7 			12.5 	%		232.6 			13.4 	%
Advertising funds revenue	406.2 			19.4 	%		389.5 			20.5 	%		333.7 			19.2 	%
Total revenues	$	2,095.5 			100.0 	%		$	1,897.0 			100.0 	%		$	1,733.8 			100.0 	%
2022		% of 
Sales		2021		% of 
Sales		2020		% of 
Sales
Cost of sales:											
Food and paper	$	292.9 			32.7 	%		$	224.1 			30.5 	%		$	221.8 			30.7 	%
Restaurant labor	288.0 			32.1 	%		231.5 			31.5 	%		233.6 			32.3 	%
Occupancy, advertising and other operating costs	192.3 			21.4 	%		156.1 			21.3 	%		159.5 			22.1 	%
Total cost of sales	$	773.2 			86.2 	%		$	611.7 			83.3 	%		$	614.9 			85.1 	%
 

2022		% of Sales		2021		% of Sales		2020		% of Sales
Company-operated restaurant margin:											
U.S.	$	125.9 			14.3 	%		$	124.4 			17.0 	%		$	108.9 			15.1 	%
Global	123.4 			13.8 	%		122.4 			16.7 	%		107.9 			14.9 	%
 

37

The table below presents certain of the Company’s key business measures, which are defined and further discussed in the “Executive Overview” section included herein.
2022		2021		2020
Key business measures:					
U.S. same-restaurant sales (a):					
Company-operated	4.4 	%		11.9 	%		(0.7)	%
Franchised	3.9 	%		9.0 	%		2.3 	%
Systemwide	3.9 	%		9.2 	%		2.0 	%
International same-restaurant sales (a) (b)	12.4 	%		17.6 	%		(6.0)	%
Global same-restaurant sales (a):					
Company-operated	4.4 	%		11.9 	%		(0.7)	%
Franchised (b)	4.9 	%		9.9 	%		1.4 	%
Systemwide (b)	4.9 	%		10.0 	%		1.2 	%
Systemwide sales (c):					
U.S. Company-operated	$	882.7 			$	730.4 			$	722.8 	
U.S. franchised	10,811.7 			10,380.3 			9,508.5 	
U.S. systemwide	11,694.4 			11,110.7 			10,231.3 	
International Company-operated	13.9 			3.7 			— 	
International franchised (b)	1,592.4 			1,392.9 			1,107.2 	
International systemwide (b)	1,606.3 			1,396.6 			1,107.2 	
Global systemwide (b)	$	13,300.7 			$	12,507.3 			$	11,338.5 	
Restaurant average unit volumes (in thousands) (a):					
U.S. Company-operated	$	2,192.0 			$	2,172.4 			$	1,978.5 	
U.S. franchised	1,957.2 			1,878.4 			1,708.9 	
U.S. systemwide	1,973.1 			1,895.3 			1,725.5 	
International systemwide (b)	1,526.5 			1,448.1 			1,199.5 	
Global systemwide (b)	$	1,905.8 			$	1,832.1 			$	1,654.7 	
 
_______________

(a)Excludes the impact of the 53rd week in 2020.

(b)Excludes Argentina and Venezuela due to the impact of the highly inflationary economies of those countries.

(c)During 2022 and 2021, global systemwide sales increased 6.8% and 9.8%, respectively, U.S. systemwide sales increased 5.3% and 8.6%, respectively, and international systemwide sales increased 19.2% and 20.7%, respectively, on a constant currency basis.

38

The table below presents details regarding the change in restaurant counts of the Wendy’s system from 2020 to 2022.
U.S.
Company-operated		U.S. Franchised		International Company-operated		International Franchised		Systemwide
Restaurant count:									
Restaurant count at January 3, 2021
361 			5,520 			— 			947 			6,828 	
Opened	7 			116 			5 			82 			210 	
Closed	(8)			(58)			— 			(23)			(89)	
Net purchased from (sold by) franchisees	43 			(43)			— 			— 			— 	
Restaurant count at January 2, 2022
403 			5,535 			5 			1,006 			6,949 	
Opened	7 			132 			7 			130 			276 	
Closed	(7)			(76)			— 			(47)			(130)	
Restaurant count at January 1, 2023
403 			5,591 			12 			1,089 			7,095 	
 

Sales	2022		2021		2020
Amount		Change		Amount		Change		Amount
Sales	$	896.6 			$	162.5 			$	734.1 			$	11.3 			$	722.8 	
 

The increase in sales during 2022 was primarily due to (1) the Company’s acquisition of 93 franchise-operated restaurants in Florida during the fourth quarter of 2021 of $162.7 million, (2) a 4.4% increase in Company-operated same-restaurant sales of $27.9 million and (3) net new restaurant development of $11.4 million. The increase in sales during 2022 was partially offset by the sale of 47 Company-operated restaurants in New York during the second quarter of 2021 of $42.9 million. Company-operated same-restaurant sales increased due to higher average check, partially offset by a decrease in customer count. Company-operated same-restaurant sales during 2021 benefited from government stimulus payments to consumers during the first quarter of 2021, which did not recur in 2022.

Franchise Royalty Revenue and Fees	2022		2021		2020
Amount		Change		Amount		Change		Amount
Franchise royalty revenue	$	485.5 			$	24.8 			$	460.7 			$	44.2 			$	416.5 	
Franchise fees	72.7 			(3.3)			76.0 			47.8 			28.2 	
$	558.2 			$	21.5 			$	536.7 			$	92.0 			$	444.7 	
 

Franchise royalty revenue during 2022 increased $24.8 million, of which (1) $21.8 million was due to a 4.9% increase in global franchise same-restaurant sales and (2) $3.1 million was due to a net increase in the number of franchise restaurants in operation during 2022 compared to 2021. Franchise same-restaurant sales during 2022 increased due to higher average check, partially offset by a decrease in customer count. Franchise same-restaurant sales during 2021 benefited from government stimulus payments to consumers during the first quarter of 2021, which did not recur in 2022.

The decrease in franchise fees during 2022 was primarily due to the accelerated recognition of franchise agreement revenue in the prior year as a result of franchisee-to-franchisee restaurant transfers of $8.3 million, partially offset by higher fees for providing information technology services to franchisees of $5.8 million. This increase in fees for providing information technology services during 2022 reflects the one-month waiver of technology fees during the first quarter of 2021.

Franchise Rental Income	2022		2021		2020
Amount		Change		Amount		Change		Amount
Franchise rental income	$	234.5 			$	(2.2)			$	236.7 			$	4.1 			$	232.6 	
 

The decrease in franchise rental income during 2022 was primarily due to the impact of terminating existing leases where the Company was lessor of $5.2 million, primarily in connection with the Company’s acquisition of franchise-operated restaurants in Florida during the fourth quarter of 2021. The decrease in franchise rental income was partially offset by (1) the impact of the sale of Company-operated restaurants in New York during the second quarter of 2021 of $1.5 million and (2) assigning certain leases to franchisees of $1.5 million.
39


Advertising Funds Revenue	2022		2021		2020
Amount		Change		Amount		Change		Amount
Advertising funds revenue	$	406.2 			$	16.7 			$	389.5 			$	55.8 			$	333.7 	
 

The increase in advertising funds revenue during 2022 was primarily due to an increase in franchise same-restaurant sales in the U.S. and Canada.

Cost of Sales, as a Percent of Sales	2022		2021		2020
Amount		Change		Amount		Change		Amount
Food and paper	32.7 	%		2.2 	%		30.5 	%		(0.2)	%		30.7 	%
Restaurant labor	32.1 	%		0.6 	%		31.5 	%		(0.8)	%		32.3 	%
Occupancy, advertising and other operating costs	21.4 	%		0.1 	%		21.3 	%		(0.8)	%		22.1 	%
86.2 	%		2.9 	%		83.3 	%		(1.8)	%		85.1 	%
 

The increase in cost of sales, as a percent of sales, during 2022 was primarily due to (1) higher commodity costs, (2) an increase in restaurant labor rates, (3) a decrease in customer count and (4) the impact of the Company’s investments to support the entry into the U.K. market. These impacts were partially offset by higher average check.

Franchise Support and Other Costs	2022		2021		2020
Amount		Change		Amount		Change		Amount
Franchise support and other costs	$	46.7 			$	3.8 			$	42.9 			$	16.4 			$	26.5 	
 

The increase in franchise support and other costs during 2022 was primarily due to an increase in costs incurred to provide information technology and other services to franchisees.

Franchise Rental Expense	2022		2021		2020
Amount		Change		Amount		Change		Amount
Franchise rental expense	$	124.1 			$	(8.3)			$	132.4 			$	6.8 			$	125.6 	
 

The decrease in franchise rental expense during 2022 was primarily due to (1) the impact of assigning certain leases to franchisees and (2) the impact of the Company’s acquisition of franchise-operated restaurants in Florida during the fourth quarter of 2021.

Advertising Funds Expense	2022		2021		2020
Amount		Change		Amount		Change		Amount
Advertising funds expense	$	430.8 			$	19.0 			$	411.8 			$	66.4 			$	345.4 	
 

The increase in advertising funds expense during 2022 was primarily due to (1) an increase in franchise same-restaurant sales in the U.S. and Canada and (2) timing of promotions. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in the Company’s funding of incremental advertising.

40

General and Administrative	2022		2021		2020
Amount		Change		Amount (a)		Change		Amount (a)
Employee compensation and benefits	$	128.5 			$	13.4 			$	115.1 			$	(1.5)			$	116.6 	
Professional services	61.8 			8.5 			53.3 			11.3 			42.0 	
Travel-related expenses	11.5 			6.0 			5.5 			0.3 			5.2 	
Share-based compensation	24.5 			2.5 			22.0 			3.9 			18.1 	
Incentive compensation	25.0 			(21.5)			46.5 			23.5 			23.0 	
Other, net	3.7 			3.1 			0.6 			(1.4)			2.0 	
 	$	255.0 			$	12.0 			$	243.0 			$	36.1 			$	206.9 	
 
_______________

(a)Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year presentation to conform to the current year presentation.

The increase in general and administrative expenses during 2022 was primarily due to (1) an increase in employee compensation and benefits, reflecting investments in resources to support the Company’s development and digital organizations, (2) higher professional fees, primarily as a result of costs associated with the Company’s enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system implementation and (3) an increase in travel-related expenses. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in incentive compensation accruals, reflecting higher operating performance as compared to plan in 2021 versus 2022.

Depreciation and Amortization (exclusive of amortization of cloud computing arrangements shown separately below)	2022		2021		2020
Amount		Change		Amount		Change		Amount
Restaurants	$	84.0 			$	7.6 			$	76.4 			$	(8.5)			$	84.9 	
Technology support, corporate and other	49.4 			0.3 			49.1 			1.2 			47.9 	
$	133.4 			$	7.9 			$	125.5 			$	(7.3)			$	132.8 	
 

The increase in depreciation and amortization during 2022 was primarily due to depreciation and amortization on assets acquired from a franchisee in Florida during the fourth quarter of 2021.

Amortization of Cloud Computing Arrangements	2022		2021		2020
Amount		Change		Amount		Change		Amount
Amortization of cloud computing arrangements	$	2.4 			$	2.4 			$	— 			$	— 			$	— 	
 

Amortization of cloud computing arrangements primarily represents amortization of assets associated with the Company’s ERP system implementation completed in 2022.

System Optimization Gains, Net	2022		2021		2020
Amount		Change		Amount		Change		Amount
System optimization gains, net	$	(6.8)			$	26.7 			$	(33.5)			$	(30.4)			$	(3.1)	
 

System optimization gains, net during 2022 were primarily comprised of gains on the sale of surplus and other properties. System optimization gains, net during 2021 were primarily comprised of a gain on the sale of 47 Company-operated restaurants in New York. See Note 4 of the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in Item 8 herein for further discussion.

41

Reorganization and Realignment Costs	2022		2021		2020
Amount		Change		Amount		Change		Amount
Operations and field realignment	$	0.1 			$	(1.6)			$	1.7 			$	(2.1)			$	3.8 	
IT realignment	— 			— 			— 			(7.3)			7.3 	
G&A realignment	— 			0.1 			(0.1)			(0.7)			0.6 	
System optimization initiative	0.6 			(6.3)			6.9 			2.6 			4.3 	
$	0.7 			$	(7.8)			$	8.5 			$	(7.5)			$	16.0 	
 

As part of the Company’s system optimization initiative, the Company expects to continue to optimize the Wendy’s system through strategic restaurant acquisitions and dispositions, as well as by facilitating Franchise Flips. During 2022, the Company recognized costs associated with its system optimization initiative totaling $0.6 million, which were primarily comprised of professional fees and other costs associated with the Company’s acquisition of 93 franchise-operated restaurants in Florida during the fourth quarter of 2021. During 2021, the Company recognized costs totaling $6.9 million, which were primarily comprised of the write-off of certain lease assets, lease termination fees and transaction fees associated with the bankruptcy sale process of NPC Quality Burgers, Inc. (“NPC”), as well as professional fees and transaction fees associated with the Company’s acquisition of 93 franchise-operated restaurants in Florida during the fourth quarter of 2021. The Company expects to recognize a gain of approximately $0.7 million, primarily related to the write-off of certain NPC-related lease liabilities upon final termination of the leases. See Note 3 of the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in Item 8 herein for further information regarding the NPC bankruptcy sale process.

Costs incurred under the Company’s other reorganization and realignment plans were not material during 2022 and 2021. The Company does not expect to incur any material additional costs under these plans. See Note 5 of the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in Item 8 herein for further information regarding the Company’s reorganization and realignment plans.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets	2022		2021		2020
Amount		Change		Amount		Change		Amount
Impairment of long-lived assets	$	6.4 			$	4.1 			$	2.3 			$	(5.7)			$	8.0 	
 

The increase in impairment charges during 2022 was primarily driven by the deterioration in operating performance of certain Company-operated restaurants.

Other Operating Income, Net	2022		2021		2020
Amount		Change		Amount		Change		Amount
Gain from insurance recoveries	$	(8.6)			$	(8.6)			$	— 			$	— 			— 	
Lease buyout	(2.8)			(3.8)			1.0 			1.6 			(0.6)	
Equity in earnings in joint ventures, net	(9.4)			1.8 			(11.2)			(5.1)			(6.1)	
Gains on sales-type leases	(3.0)			1.2 			(4.2)			(2.2)			(2.0)	
Other, net	0.1 			0.3 			(0.2)			(0.4)			0.2 	
$	(23.7)			$	(9.1)			$	(14.6)			$	(6.1)			$	(8.5)	
 

The increase in other operating income, net during 2022 was primarily due to (1) a gain from insurance recoveries and (2) lease buyout activity. These impacts were partially offset by a decrease in the equity in earnings from our TimWen joint venture, which included a gain on the sale of a parcel of land during 2021.

Interest Expense, Net	2022		2021		2020
Amount		Change		Amount		Change		Amount
Interest expense, net	$	122.3 			$	13.1 			$	109.2 			$	(8.5)			$	117.7 	
 

Interest expense, net increased during 2022 primarily due to the impact of completing a debt financing transaction under the Company’s securitized financing facility in the first quarter of 2022, partially offset by the impact of completing the refinancing of a portion of the Company’s securitized financing facility in the second quarter of 2021.

42

Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt	2022		2021		2020
Amount		Change		Amount		Change		Amount
Loss on early extinguishment of debt	$	— 			$	(17.9)			$	17.9 			$	17.9 			$	— 	
 

During the second quarter of 2021, in connection with the refinancing of a portion of the Company’s securitized financing facility, the Company incurred a loss on the early extinguishment of debt as a result of repaying the outstanding 2015-1 Class A-2-III Notes and 2018-1 Class A-2-I Notes with the proceeds from the issuance of its 2021-1 Class A-2 Notes. The loss on the early extinguishment of debt of $17.9 million was comprised of a specified make-whole payment of $9.6 million and the write-off of certain unamortized deferred financing costs of $8.3 million.

Investment Income (Loss), Net	2022		2021		2020
Amount		Change		Amount		Change		Amount
Investment income (loss), net	$	2.1 			$	2.1 			$	— 			$	0.2 			$	(0.2)	
 

During 2022, the Company recognized a gain of $2.1 million on an investment in equity securities as a result of an observable price change.

Other Income, Net	2022		2021		2020
Amount		Change		Amount		Change		Amount
Other income, net	$	10.4 			$	9.7 			$	0.7 			$	(0.7)			$	1.4 	
 

The increase in other income, net during 2022 was primarily due to interest income earned on our cash equivalents, which increased as a result of cash received from our debt financing transaction under the Company’s securitized financing facility in the first quarter of 2022.

Provision for Income Taxes	2022		2021		2020
Amount		Change		Amount		Change		Amount
Income before income taxes
$	243.5 			$	2.9 			$	240.6 			$	87.8 			$	152.8 	
Provision for income taxes	(66.1)			(25.9)			(40.2)			(5.2)			(35.0)	
Effective tax rate on income	27.2 	%		10.5 	%		16.7 	%		(6.2)	%		22.9 	%
 

The increase in the provision for income taxes and effective tax rate during 2022 was primarily due to (1) an increase in state income taxes, including an increase in state deferred income taxes, (2) a decrease in the tax benefit from share-based compensation and (3) an increase in tax on our foreign operations. The increase in state deferred income taxes from 2021 to 2022 was primarily due to a 2021 change in tax law, which resulted in a one-time release of a previously recorded valuation allowance against our state deferred tax assets.

Segment Information

See Note 27 of the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in Item 8 herein for further information regarding the Company’s segments.

Wendy’s U.S.
2022		2021		2020
Amount		Change		Amount		Change		Amount
Sales	$	882.7 			$	152.3 			$	730.4 			$	7.6 			$	722.8 	
Franchise royalty revenue	424.0 			16.7 			407.3 			34.1 			373.2 	
Franchise fees	63.0 			(1.2)			64.2 			42.1 			22.1 	
Advertising fund revenue	380.5 			14.9 			365.6 			52.3 			313.3 	
Total revenues	$	1,750.2 			$	182.7 			$	1,567.5 			$	136.1 			$	1,431.4 	
Segment profit	$	480.5 			$	30.4 			$	450.1 			$	56.8 			$	393.3 	
 

43

The increase in Wendy’s U.S. revenues during 2022 was primarily due to (1) the Company’s acquisition of 93 franchise-operated restaurants in Florida during the fourth quarter of 2021 and (2) an increase in same-restaurant sales. These increases were partially offset by the sale of 47 Company-operated restaurants in New York during the second quarter of 2021. Same-restaurant sales increased during 2022 primarily due to higher average check, partially offset by a decrease in customer count.

The increase in Wendy’s U.S. segment profit during 2022 was primarily due to (1) higher revenues and (2) a decrease in the Company’s funding of incremental advertising. These increases were partially offset by higher cost of sales, as a percent of sales for Company-operated restaurants driven by the same factors as described above for “Cost of Sales, as a Percent of Sales” (excluding the impact of the U.K. market).

Wendy’s International
2022		2021		2020
Amount		Change		Amount		Change		Amount
Sales	$	13.9 			$	10.2 			$	3.7 			$	3.7 			$	— 	
Franchise royalty revenue	61.5 			8.1 			53.4 			10.1 			43.3 	
Franchise fees	5.6 			0.2 			5.4 			3.4 			2.0 	
Advertising fund revenue	25.7 			1.8 			23.9 			3.6 			20.3 	
Total revenues	$	106.7 			$	20.3 			$	86.4 			$	20.8 			$	65.6 	
Segment profit	$	30.4 			$	3.0 			$	27.4 			$	7.3 			$	20.1 	
 

The increase in Wendy’s International revenues during 2022 was primarily due to (1) the opening of Company-operated restaurants in the U.K. beginning in the second quarter of 2021 and (2) an increase in franchise same-restaurant sales. Franchise same-restaurant sales increased during 2022 due to (1) an increase in customer count and (2) higher average check.

The increase in Wendy’s International segment profit during 2022 was primarily due to higher revenues. This increase was partially offset by (1) higher advertising fund expense, reflecting the Company’s funding of incremental advertising to support the launch of breakfast in Canada in May 2022, and (2) the Company’s investments to support the entry into the U.K. market.

Global Real Estate & Development
2022		2021		2020
Amount		Change		Amount		Change		Amount
Franchise fees	$	4.1 			$	(2.3)			$	6.4 			$	2.2 			$	4.2 	
Franchise rental income	234.5 			(2.2)			236.7 			4.1 			232.6 	
Total revenues	$	238.6 			$	(4.5)			$	243.1 			$	6.3 			$	236.8 	
Segment profit	$	108.7 			$	2.6 			$	106.1 			$	5.4 			$	100.7 	
 

The decrease in Global Real Estate & Development revenues during 2022 was primarily due to (1) the accelerated recognition of franchise agreement revenue in the prior year as a result of franchisee-to-franchisee restaurant transfers and (2) lower franchise rental income. See “Franchise Rental Income” above for further information.

The increase in Global Real Estate & Development segment profit during 2022 was primarily due to a decrease in franchise rental expense, partially offset by lower revenues. See “Franchise Rental Expense” above for further information.

Consolidated Outlook for 2023

Sales

We expect sales at our Company-operated restaurants to be favorably impacted primarily by (1) a net increase in the number of Company-operated restaurants, (2) continued growth of our breakfast daypart, (3) our “Fast Food Done Right” strategy, which includes continuing core menu improvements, product innovation and strategic price increases on our menu items to partially offset commodity and labor inflation pressures, (4) focused execution of operational excellence and (5) continued growth of our digital business.

44

Franchise Royalty Revenue and Fees

We expect sales at franchised restaurants to generally benefit from many of the factors described above under “Sales.” In addition, we expect franchise royalty revenue and fees to be favorably impacted by (1) a net increase in the number of franchise restaurants in operation due to net new restaurant development and (2) a full year of operating in the breakfast daypart across the Canadian system after the launch of breakfast in Canada in May 2022.

Cost of Sales

We expect cost of sales, as a percent of sales to be favorably impacted by many of the same factors described above under “Sales,” and to also benefit from productivity initiatives. We expect cost of sales, as a percent of sales to be negatively impacted by (1) an increase in commodity costs and (2) higher restaurant labor rates.

General and Administrative

We expect general and administrative expenses to be relatively flat, despite elevated inflationary pressures, primarily as a result of the Company’s organizational redesign. See “Executive Overview” above for further information regarding expected costs to be incurred under the plan.

Reorganization and Realignment Costs

We expect reorganization and realignment costs to be elevated as a result of the Company’s organizational redesign announced in January 2023. See “Executive Overview” above for further information regarding expected costs to be incurred under the plan.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Our primary sources of liquidity and capital resources are cash flows from operations and borrowings under our securitized financing facility. Our principal uses of cash are operating expenses, capital expenditures, repurchases of common stock, dividends to stockholders and repurchases of debt.

Cash Flows from Operating, Investing and Financing Activities

The table below summarizes our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for each of the past three fiscal years:
2022		2021		2020
Amount		Change		Amount		Change		Amount
Net cash provided by (used in):									
Operating activities	$	259.9 			$	(85.9)			$	345.8 			$	61.4 			$	284.4 	
Investing activities	(77.8)			76.9 			(154.7)			(86.4)			(68.3)	
Financing activities	288.7 			531.4 			(242.7)			(84.8)			(157.9)	
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash	(6.0)			(6.3)			0.3 			(1.0)			1.3 	
Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash	$	464.8 			$	516.1 			$	(51.3)			$	(110.8)			$	59.5 	
 

Operating Activities

Cash provided by operating activities consists primarily of net income, adjusted for non-cash expenses such as depreciation and amortization, deferred income tax and share-based compensation, and the net change in operating assets and liabilities. Cash provided by operating activities was $259.9 million and $345.8 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively. The change was primarily due to (1) the timing of payments for marketing expenses of the national advertising funds, (2) an increase in payments for incentive compensation for the 2021 fiscal year paid in 2022 and (3) cash paid for cloud computing arrangements, primarily related to the Company’s ERP system implementation.

45

Investing Activities

Cash used in investing activities was $77.8 million and $154.7 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively. The change was primarily due to (1) a decrease in payments for acquisitions of $123.1 million, reflecting the impact of the Company’s acquisition of 93 franchise-operated restaurants in Florida during the fourth quarter of 2021 and (2) a payment for an investment in equity securities of $10.0 million during 2021. These changes were partially offset by (1) a decrease in proceeds from dispositions of $46.9 million, reflecting the sale of 47 Company-operated restaurants in New York during the second quarter of 2021 and (2) an increase in capital expenditures of $7.6 million.

Financing Activities

Cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $288.7 million and $(242.7) million in 2022 and 2021, respectively. The change was primarily due to (1) a net increase in cash provided by long-term debt activities of $354.2 million, reflecting the respective impacts of the completion of the Company’s debt financing transaction during the first quarter of 2022 and the Company’s debt refinancing transaction during the second quarter of 2021, and (2) a decrease in the repurchases of common stock of $216.6 million. These changes were partially offset by (1) a decrease in proceeds from stock option exercises, net of payments related to tax withholding for share-based compensation, of $23.8 million and (2) an increase in dividends of $11.9 million.

Material Cash Requirements

Our anticipated cash requirements for 2023, exclusive of operating cash flow requirements, consist principally of:

•capital expenditures of approximately $75.0 million to $85.0 million as discussed below in “Capital Expenditures;”

•quarterly cash dividends aggregating approximately $212.6 million as discussed below in “Dividends;”

•stock repurchases under the Company’s January 2023 Authorization as discussed below in “Stock Repurchases;” and

•debt repurchases of up to $75.0 million as discussed below in “Long-Term Debt, Including Current Portion.”

Based on current levels of operations, the Company expects that available cash and cash flows from operations will provide sufficient liquidity to meet operating cash requirements for the next 12 months.

We currently believe we have the ability to pursue additional sources of liquidity if needed or desired to fund operating cash requirements or for other purposes. However, there can be no assurance that additional liquidity will be readily available or available on terms acceptable to us.

Capital Expenditures

In 2022, cash capital expenditures amounted to $85.5 million. In 2023, we expect that cash capital expenditures will amount to approximately $75.0 million to $85.0 million, principally relating to (1) technology investments, including consumer-facing digital technology, (2) the opening of new Company-operated restaurants and the reimaging of existing Company-operated restaurants, (3) restaurant equipment investments, (4) maintenance capital expenditures for Company-operated restaurants and (5) various other capital projects.

In addition to the capital expenditures noted above, the Company’s cash expenditures related to cloud computing arrangements (“CCA”) amounted to $30.2 million during 2022, primarily related to the Company’s ERP system implementation. In 2023, we expect to spend approximately $25.0 million on CCA, primarily related to the Company’s human capital management system implementation. See Note 1 of the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in Item 8 herein for further information related to our accounting policy for CCA.

Dividends

On March 15, 2022, June 15, 2022, September 15, 2022 and December 15, 2022, the Company paid quarterly cash dividends per share of $.125, aggregating $106.8 million. On January 13, 2023, the Company announced a dividend of $.25 per share to be paid on March 15, 2023 to stockholders of record as of March 1, 2023. If the Company pays regular quarterly cash dividends for the remainder of 2023 at the same rate as declared in the first quarter of 2023, the Company’s total cash requirement for dividends for all of 2023 would be approximately $212.6 million based on the number of shares of its common
46

stock outstanding at February 21, 2023. The Company currently intends to continue to declare and pay quarterly cash dividends; however, there can be no assurance that any additional quarterly dividends will be declared or paid or of the amount or timing of such dividends, if any.

Stock Repurchases

In February 2022, our Board of Directors authorized a repurchase program for up to $100.0 million of our common stock through February 28, 2023, when and if market conditions warranted and to the extent legally permissible (the “February 2022 Authorization”). On April 1, 2022, the Company’s Board of Directors approved an increase of $150.0 million to the February 2022 Authorization, resulting in an aggregate authorization of $250.0 million that was set to expire on February 28, 2023. During 2022, the Company repurchased 2.8 million shares under the February 2022 Authorization with an aggregate purchase price of $51.9 million, excluding commissions. As of January 1, 2023, the Company had $198.1 million of availability remaining under the February 2022 Authorization. In January 2023, our Board of Directors authorized a repurchase program for up to $500.0 million of our common stock through February 28, 2027, when and if market conditions warrant and to the extent legally permissible (the “January 2023 Authorization”). In connection with the January 2023 Authorization, the remaining portion of the February 2022 Authorization was canceled. Subsequent to January 1, 2023 through February 21, 2023, the Company repurchased 0.6 million shares under the January 2023 Authorization with an aggregate purchase price of $12.9 million, excluding commissions.

In February 2020, our Board of Directors authorized a repurchase program for up to $100.0 million of our common stock through February 28, 2021, when and if market conditions warranted and to the extent legally permissible (the “February 2020 Authorization”). In July 2020, the Company’s Board of Directors approved an extension of the February 2020 Authorization by one year, through February 28, 2022. In addition, in May 2021, August 2021 and November 2021, the Board of Directors approved increases of $50.0 million, $70.0 million and $80.0 million, respectively, to the February 2020 Authorization, resulting in an aggregate authorization of $300.0 million that continued to expire on February 28, 2022. In November 2021, the Company entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement (the “2021 ASR Agreement”) with a third-party financial institution to repurchase common stock as part of the February 2020 Authorization. Under the 2021 ASR Agreement, the Company paid the financial institution an initial purchase price of $125.0 million in cash and received an initial delivery of 4.9 million shares of common stock, representing an estimated 85% of the total shares expected to be delivered under the 2021 ASR Agreement. In February 2022, the Company completed the 2021 ASR Agreement and received an additional 0.7 million shares of common stock. The total number of shares of common stock ultimately purchased by the Company under the 2021 ASR Agreement was based on the average of the daily volume-weighted average prices of the common stock during the term of the 2021 ASR Agreement, less an agreed upon discount. In total, 5.6 million shares were delivered under the 2021 ASR Agreement at an average purchase price of $22.22 per share. With the completion of the 2021 ASR Agreement in February 2022 as described above, the Company completed the February 2020 Authorization.

Long-Term Debt, Including Current Portion

As of January 1, 2023, the Company’s long-term debt obligations totaled $2,851.4 million, including $29.3 million payable within 12 months. In addition, the Company is party to a revolving financing facility of Series 2021-1 Variable Funding Senior Secured Notes, Class A-1 (the “Class A-1 Notes”), which allows for the drawing of up to $300.0 million on a revolving basis using various credit instruments, including a letter of credit facility. No amounts were borrowed under the Class A-1 Notes during 2022.

Subsequent to January 1, 2023, Wendy’s repurchased $25.0 million in principal of its 7% debentures at par value.

We may from time to time seek to repurchase additional portions of our outstanding long-term debt, including our 7% debentures and/or our senior secured notes, through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. In February 2023, our Board of Directors authorized additional debt repurchases of up to $50.0 million through February 28, 2024, resulting in total debt repurchases of up to $75.0 million in 2023. Such repurchases, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. Whether or not to repurchase any debt and the size and timing of any such repurchases will be determined at our discretion.

See Note 12 of the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in Item 8 herein for further information related to our long-term debt obligations and the timing of expected payments.

47

Leases

The Company operates restaurants that are located on sites owned by us and sites leased by us from third parties. In addition, the Company owns sites and leases sites from third parties, which it leases and/or subleases to franchisees. The Company also leases restaurant, office and transportation equipment. As of January 1, 2023, the Company’s future minimum rental payments for non-cancelable leases were $2,159.5 million, including $148.5 million payable within 12 months. See Note 20 of the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in Item 8 herein for further information related to our finance and operating lease obligations and the timing of expected payments.

Purchase Obligations

The Company’s purchase obligations include payment obligations to a third-party global IT consultant, purchase requirements under a beverage agreement and other obligations related primarily to marketing and information technology. As of January 1, 2023, the Company’s purchase obligations were $252.9 million, including $117.4 million payable within 12 months.

Guarantees and Other Contingencies
Year End
2022
Lease guarantees (a)	$	102.6 	
Letters of credit (b)	28.6 	
Total	$	131.2 	
 
_______________

(a)Wendy’s has guaranteed the performance of certain leases and other obligations, primarily from former Company-operated restaurant locations now operated by franchisees. These leases extend through 2045.

(b)The Company has outstanding letters of credit with various parties. The Company does not expect any material loss to result from these letters of credit because we do not believe performance will be required.

General Inflation, Commodities and Changing Prices

Inflationary pressures on labor and commodity price increases directly impacted our consolidated results of operations during 2022, and we expect this to continue into 2023. We attempt to manage any inflationary costs and commodity price increases through selective menu price increases and product mix. Delays in implementing such menu price increases and competitive pressures may limit our ability to recover such cost increases in the future. Inherent volatility experienced in certain commodity markets, such as those for beef, chicken, pork, cheese and grains, could have a significant effect on our results of operations and may have an adverse effect on us in the future. The extent of any impact will depend on our ability to manage such volatility through product mix and selective menu price increases.

Seasonality

Wendy’s restaurant operations are moderately seasonal. Wendy’s average restaurant sales are normally higher during the summer months than during the winter months. Because our business is moderately seasonal, results for a particular quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for any other quarter or for the full fiscal year.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Other than the obligations for guarantees described above in “Guarantees and Other Contingencies,” we do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are, in the opinion of management, reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our financial condition or results of operations.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires us to make estimates and assumptions in applying our critical accounting policies that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated
48

financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Our estimates and assumptions affect, among other things, impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, impairment of long-lived assets, realizability of deferred tax assets and federal and state income tax uncertainties. We evaluate those estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis based on historical experience and on various other factors which we believe are reasonable under the circumstances.

We believe that the following represent our more critical estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements:

•Impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets:

Our goodwill totaled $773.1 million as of January 1, 2023, of which $620.6 million, $30.0 million and $122.5 million was allocated to our U.S. Company-operated and franchise restaurants reporting unit, Canada franchise restaurants reporting unit and global real estate and development operations reporting unit, respectively.

We test goodwill for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. Our annual impairment test of goodwill may be completed through a qualitative assessment to determine if the fair value of the reporting unit is more likely than not greater than the carrying amount. If we elect to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting units, or if a qualitative assessment indicates it is more likely than not that the estimated carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test. Under the quantitative test, the fair value of the reporting unit is compared with its carrying value (including goodwill). If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. The fair value of the reporting unit is determined by management and is based on the results of (1) estimates we made regarding the present value of the anticipated cash flows associated with each reporting unit (the “income approach”) and/or (2) the indicated value of the reporting units based on a comparison and correlation of the Company and other similar companies (the “market approach”).

The income approach, which considers factors unique to each of our reporting units and related long range plans that may not be comparable to other companies and that are not yet publicly available, is dependent on several critical management assumptions. These assumptions include estimates of future sales growth, operating profit, income tax rates, terminal value growth rates, capital expenditures and the weighted average cost of capital (discount rate). Anticipated cash flows used under the income approach are developed every fourth quarter in conjunction with our annual budgeting process and also incorporate amounts and timing of future cash flows based on our long range plan.

The discount rates used in the income approach are an estimate of the rate of return that a market participant would expect of each reporting unit. To select an appropriate rate for discounting the future earnings stream, a review is made of short-term interest rate yields of long-term corporate and government bonds, as well as the typical capital structure of companies in the industry. The discount rates used for each reporting unit may vary depending on the risk inherent in the cash flow projections, as well as the risk level that would be perceived by a market participant. A terminal value is included at the end of the projection period used in our discounted cash flow analysis to reflect the remaining value that each reporting unit is expected to generate. The terminal value represents the present value in the last year of the projection period of all subsequent cash flows into perpetuity. The terminal value growth rate is a key assumption used in determining the terminal value as it represents the annual growth of all subsequent cash flows into perpetuity.

Under the market approach, we apply the guideline company method in estimating fair value. The guideline company method makes use of market price data of corporations whose stock is actively traded in a public market. The corporations we select as guideline companies are engaged in a similar line of business or are subject to similar financial and business risks, including the opportunity for growth. The guideline company method of the market approach provides an indication of value by relating the equity or invested capital (debt plus equity) of guideline companies to various measures of their earnings and cash flow, then applying such multiples to the business being valued. The result of applying the guideline company approach is adjusted based on the incremental value associated with a controlling interest in the business. This “control premium” represents the amount a new controlling stockholder would pay for the benefits resulting from synergies and other potential benefits derived from controlling the enterprise.

49

For the annual goodwill impairment test in the fourth quarter of 2022, we elected to perform a qualitative assessment for the U.S. Company-operated and franchise restaurants and the Canada franchise restaurants, and we performed a quantitative goodwill impairment test for the global real estate and development operations. The qualitative assessment indicated the fair value of our U.S. Company-operated and franchise restaurants and our Canada franchise restaurants reporting units was more likely than not greater than the carrying amount. Our quantitative goodwill impairment test for our global real estate and development operations indicated that there had been no impairment and the fair value of this reporting unit of approximately $1,400.0 million was approximately 21% in excess of its carrying value.

Our indefinite-lived intangible assets represent trademarks and totaled $903.0 million as of January 1, 2023. We test indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the assets may be impaired. Our annual impairment test may be completed through a qualitative assessment to determine if the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible assets is more likely than not greater than the carrying amount. If we elect to bypass the qualitative assessment, or if a qualitative assessment indicates it is more likely than not that the estimated carrying value exceeds the fair value, we test for impairment using a quantitative process. Our quantitative process includes comparing the carrying value to the fair value of our indefinite-lived intangible assets, with any excess recognized as an impairment loss. Our critical estimates in the determination of the fair value of our indefinite-lived intangible assets include the anticipated future revenues of Company-operated and franchised restaurants and the resulting cash flows.

For the annual impairment test of our indefinite-lived intangible assets in the fourth quarter of 2022, we elected to perform a qualitative assessment. The qualitative assessment indicated the fair value of our indefinite-lived intangible assets was more likely than not greater than the carrying amount.

The estimated fair values of our goodwill reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets are subject to change as a result of many factors including, among others, any changes in our business plans, changing economic conditions and the competitive environment. Should actual cash flows and our future estimates vary adversely from those estimates we use, we may be required to recognize impairment charges in future years.

•Impairment of long-lived assets:

As of January 1, 2023, the total net carrying value of our long-lived tangible and definite-lived intangible assets was $2,230.6 million. Our long-lived assets include (1) properties and related definite-lived intangible assets (e.g., favorable leases) that are leased and/or subleased to franchisees, (2) Company-operated restaurant assets and related definite-lived intangible assets, which include reacquired rights under franchise agreements, and (3) finance and operating lease assets.

We review our long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. We assess the recoverability of our long-lived assets by comparing the carrying amount of the asset group to future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated through leases and/or subleases or by our individual Company-operated restaurants. If the carrying amount of the long-lived asset group is not recoverable on an undiscounted cash flow basis, then impairment is recognized to the extent that the carrying amount exceeds its fair value and is included in “Impairment of long-lived assets.” Our critical estimates in this review process include the anticipated future cash flows from leases and/or subleases or individual Company-operated restaurants, which is used in assessing the recoverability of the respective long-lived assets. Our impairment losses principally reflect impairment charges resulting from the deterioration in operating performance of certain Company-operated restaurants.

Our fair value estimates are subject to change as a result of many factors including, among others, any changes in our business plans, changing economic conditions and the competitive environment. Should actual cash flows and our future estimates vary adversely from those estimates we used, we may be required to recognize additional impairment charges in future years.

50

•Our ability to realize deferred tax assets:

We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method. A deferred tax asset or liability is recognized whenever there are (1) future tax effects from temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and (2) operating loss, capital loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to the years in which those differences are expected to be recovered or settled.

Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent the Company believes these assets will more likely than not be realized. In evaluating the realizability of deferred tax assets, the Company considers all available positive and negative evidence, including the interaction and the timing of future reversals of existing temporary differences, recent operating results, tax-planning strategies and projected future taxable income. In projecting future taxable income, we begin with historical results from continuing operations and incorporate assumptions including future operating income, the reversal of temporary differences and the implementation of feasible and prudent tax planning strategies. These assumptions require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage our underlying business. In evaluating the objective evidence that historical results provide, we consider three years of cumulative operating income.

When considered necessary, a valuation allowance is recorded to reduce the carrying amount of the deferred tax assets to their anticipated realizable value. Our evaluation of the realizability of our deferred tax assets is subject to change as a result of many factors including, among others, any changes in our business plans, changing economic conditions, the competitive environment and the effect of future tax legislation. Should future taxable income vary from projected taxable income, we may be required to adjust our valuation allowance in future years.

Net operating loss and credit carryforwards are subject to various limitations and carryforward periods. As of January 1, 2023, we have foreign tax credits of $18.2 million and state tax credits of $0.4 million. The foreign tax credits begin to expire in 2027 and the state tax credits begin to expire in 2023. In addition, as of January 1, 2023, we have deferred tax assets for foreign net operating loss carryforwards of $3.5 million and state and local net operating loss carryforwards of $35.9 million that will begin to expire in 2023. We believe it is more likely than not that the benefit from certain net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits will not be realized. In recognition of this risk, we have provided a valuation allowance of $35.7 million.

•Income tax uncertainties:

We measure income tax uncertainties in accordance with a two-step process of evaluating a tax position. We first determine if it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination based on the technical merits of the position. A tax position that meets the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold is then measured, for purposes of financial statement recognition, as the largest amount that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon effective settlement. We have unrecognized tax benefits of $17.4 million, which if resolved favorably would reduce our tax expense by $13.7 million as of January 1, 2023.

We accrue interest related to uncertain tax positions in “Interest expense, net.” As of January 1, 2023, we had $0.9 million accrued for interest.

The Company participates in the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) Compliance Assurance Process (“CAP”). As part of CAP, tax years are examined on a contemporaneous basis so that all or most issues are resolved prior to the filing of the tax return. As such, our U.S. federal income tax returns for fiscal years 2009 through 2020 have been settled. The statute of limitations for the Company’s state tax returns vary, but generally the Company’s state income tax returns from its 2018 fiscal year forward remain subject to examination. We believe that adequate provisions have been made for any liabilities, including interest and penalties that may result from the completion of these examinations.

New Accounting Standards

See Note 1 of the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in Item 8 herein for a summary of new or amended accounting standards applicable to us.

51

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.

Certain statements the Company makes under this Item 7A constitute “forward-looking statements” under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Projections” in “Part I” preceding “Item 1. Business.”

We are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes, changes in commodity prices and foreign currency fluctuations primarily related to the Canadian dollar. In the normal course of business, we employ established policies and procedures to manage our exposure to these changes using financial instruments we deem appropriate.

Interest Rate Risk

Our objective in managing our exposure to interest rate changes is to limit the impact on our earnings and cash flows. Our policies prohibit the use of derivative instruments for trading purposes, and we had no outstanding derivative instruments as of January 1, 2023.

Our long-term debt, including the current portion, aggregated $2,895.8 million as of January 1, 2023 (excluding unamortized debt issuance costs and the effect of purchase accounting adjustments). The Company’s predominantly fixed-rate debt structure has reduced its exposure to interest rate increases that could adversely affect its earnings and cash flows. The Company could be exposed to interest rate increases under its Class A-1 Notes and other lines of credit; however, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under the Class A-1 Notes or its other lines of credit as of January 1, 2023. See Note 12 of the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained in Item 8 herein for further information on the Company’s debt structure and its securitized financing facility.

In addition, certain of the Company’s loan documents determine interest based on LIBOR, and we currently intend to renegotiate such loan documents prior to LIBOR being discontinued. At this time, we cannot predict what alternative index would be negotiated with our lenders or the resulting impact on our interest expense.

Commodity Price Risk

Commodity price increases directly impacted our consolidated results of operations during 2022, and we expect this to continue into 2023. We purchase certain food products, such as beef, chicken, pork, cheese and grains, that are affected by changes in commodity prices and, as a result, we are subject to variability in our food costs. QSCC, our independent supply chain purchasing co-op, negotiates contracts with approved suppliers on behalf of the Wendy’s system in the U.S. and Canada to ensure favorable pricing for its major food products, as well as maintain an adequate supply of fresh food products. While price volatility can occur, which would impact profit margins, the purchasing contracts seek to limit the variability of these commodity costs without establishing any firm purchase commitments by us or our franchisees. In addition, we believe that alternative suppliers are generally available. Our ability to recover increased commodity costs through higher pricing is, at times, limited by the competitive environment in which we operate.

Foreign Currency Risk

Our exposures to foreign currency risk are primarily related to fluctuations in the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar for our Canadian operations. We monitor these exposures and periodically determine our need for the use of strategies intended to lessen or limit our exposure to these fluctuations. We have exposure related to our investment in a Canadian subsidiary which is subject to foreign currency fluctuations. The exposure to Canadian dollar exchange rates on the Company’s cash flows primarily includes imports paid for by Canadian operations in U.S. dollars and payments from the Company’s Canadian operations to the Company’s U.S. operations in U.S. dollars. Revenues from our Canadian operations for the year ended January 1, 2023 represented approximately 5% of our total revenues. An immediate 10% change in Canadian dollar exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar from their levels at January 1, 2023 would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.
52

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 	Page
Glossary of Defined Terms	
54
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID No. 34)
56
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022
58
Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended January 1, 2023, January 2, 2022 and
January 3, 2021
59
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended January 1, 2023, January 2, 2022 and
January 3, 2021
60
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for the years ended January 1, 2023, January 2, 2022 and
January 3, 2021
61
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended January 1, 2023, January 2, 2022 and
January 3, 2021
62
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements	
63
(1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies	
63
(2) Revenue	
72
(3) Acquisitions	
75
(4) System Optimization Gains, Net	
76
(5) Reorganization and Realignment Costs	
77
(6) Net Income Per Share	
80
(7) Cash and Receivables	
80
(8) Investments	
82
(9) Properties	
83
(10) Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets	
84
(11) Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities	
85
(12) Long-Term Debt	
86
(13) Fair Value Measurements	
89
(14) Income Taxes	
91
(15) Stockholders’ Equity	
94
(16) Share-Based Compensation	
95
(17) Impairment of Long-Lived Assets	
99
(18) Investment Income (Loss), Net	
99
(19) Retirement Benefit Plans	
99
(20) Leases	
100
(21) Supplemental Cash Flow Information	
103
(22) Guarantees and Other Commitments and Contingencies	
104
(23) Transactions with Related Parties	
105
(24) Legal and Environmental Matters	
106
(25) Advertising Costs and Funds	
106
(26) Geographic Information	
107
(27) Segment Information	
107
 

53

Defined Term	Footnote Where Defined
2010 Plan	(16)	
Share-Based Compensation
2019-1 Class A-1 Notes	(12)	Long-Term Debt
2019 ASR Agreement	(15)	Stockholders’ Equity
2020-1 Class A-1 Notes	(12)	Long-Term Debt
2020 Plan	(16)	Share-Based Compensation
2021-1 Class A-1 Notes	(12)	Long-Term Debt
2021 ASR Agreement	(15)	Stockholders’ Equity
2022-1 Class A-2 Notes	(12)	Long-Term Debt
401(k) Plan	(19)	Retirement Benefit Plans
Advertising Funds	(1)	Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Black-Scholes Model	(1)	Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Brazil JV	(1)	Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
CAP	(14)	Income Taxes
Class A-2 Notes	(12)	Long-Term Debt
CCA	(1)	Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Company	(1)	Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Contingent Rent	(1)	Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
EBITDA	(27)	Segment Information
Equity Plans	(1)	Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
FASB	(1)	Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
February 2019 Authorization	(15)	Stockholders’ Equity
February 2020 Authorization	(15)	Stockholders’ Equity
February 2022 Authorization	(15)	Stockholders’ Equity
Fountain Beverages	(22)	Guarantees and Other Commitments and Contingencies
Franchise Flip	(1)	Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
FRG	(3)	Acquisitions
G&A	(5)	Reorganization and Realignment Costs
G&A Realignment Plan	(5)	Reorganization and Realignment Costs
GAAP	(1)	Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Groundbreaker	(22)	Guarantees and Other Commitments and Contingencies
Indenture	(12)	Long-Term Debt
IRS	(14)	Income Taxes
IT	(5)	Reorganization and Realignment Costs
IT Realignment Plan	(5)	Reorganization and Realignment Costs
January 2023 Authorization	(15)	Stockholders’ Equity
LIBOR	(1)	Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Master Issuer	(12)	Long-Term Debt
NPC	(3)	Acquisitions
Operations and Field Realignment Plan	(5)	Reorganization and Realignment Costs
Pacesetter	(22)	Guarantees and Other Commitments and Contingencies
QSCC	(23)	Transactions with Related Parties
Rent Holiday	(1)	Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Restricted Shares	(16)	Share-Based Compensation
ROU	(1)	Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
RSAs	(1)	Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
RSUs	(1)	Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Securitization Entities	(12)	Long-Term Debt
Senior Notes	(12)	Long-Term Debt
 
54

Defined Term	Footnote Where Defined
SERP	(19)	Retirement Benefit Plans
Straight-Line Rent	(1)	Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Target	(16)	Share-Based Compensation
The Wendy’s Company	(1)	Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
TimWen	(1)	Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
U.S.	(1)	Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
VIE	(1)	Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Wendy’s	(1)	Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Wendy’s Co-op	(23)	Transactions with Related Parties
Wendy’s Funding	(12)	Long-Term Debt
Wendy’s Merger	(8)	Investments
Wendy’s Restaurants	(1)	Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Yellow Cab	(23)	Transactions with Related Parties
 

55

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of The Wendy’s Company

Opinion on the Financial Statements

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The Wendy’s Company and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022, the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows, for each of the three years in the period ended January 1, 2023, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “financial statements”). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 1, 2023, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of January 1, 2023, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated March 1, 2023, expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

Basis for Opinion

These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Critical Audit Matter

The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current-period audit of the financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.

Goodwill - Global Real Estate and Development Operations Reporting Unit – Refer to Notes 1 and 10 to the financial statements

Critical Audit Matter Description

The Company’s evaluation of goodwill for impairment involves the comparison of the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value.

The Company used both an income approach and a market approach to estimate fair value of the global real estate and development operations reporting unit. The income approach requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions including future sales growth, operating profit, terminal value growth rate and the weighted average cost of capital (discount rate). The market approach requires use of market price data of guideline public companies to estimate the fair value of the reporting unit. Changes in these assumptions could have a significant impact on either the fair value, the amount of any goodwill impairment charge, or both. The goodwill balance was $773.1 million as of January 1, 2023, of which $122.5 million
56

was allocated to the global real estate and development operations reporting unit. The fair value of the global real estate and development operations reporting unit exceeded its carrying value as of the measurement date and, therefore, no impairment was recognized.

We identified the Company’s income approach in the impairment evaluation of goodwill for the global real estate and development operations reporting unit as a critical audit matter because of the significant judgments made by management to estimate the fair value of this reporting unit. This required a high degree of auditor judgment and an increased extent of effort, including the need to involve our fair value specialists, when performing audit procedures to evaluate the reasonableness of management’s estimates and assumptions, particularly related to future sales growth, operating profit, terminal value growth rate and the selection of the discount rate.

How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit

Our audit procedures related to the estimates of future sales growth, operating profit and discount rate used by management to estimate the fair value of the global real estate and development operations reporting unit included the following, among others:

•We tested the effectiveness of controls over management’s goodwill impairment evaluation, including those over the determination of the fair value of the global real estate and development operations reporting unit, such as controls related to management’s forecasts of future sales growth, operating profit, terminal value growth rate and selection of the discount rate.
•We evaluated management’s ability to accurately forecast future sales growth and operating profit by comparing actual results to management’s historical forecasts.
•We evaluated the reasonableness of management’s sales and operating profit forecasts by comparing the forecasts to (1) historical sales and operating profit and (2) internal communications to management and the Board of Directors. We also considered the impact of changes in management’s forecasts from the annual measurement date in the fourth quarter to January 1, 2023.
•With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the terminal value growth rate and the discount rate, including testing the underlying source information and the mathematical accuracy of the calculation, and by developing a range of independent estimates and comparing those to the discount rate selected by management.


/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
Columbus, Ohio
March 1, 2023

We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1994.
57
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In Thousands Except Par Value)
January 1,
2023		January 2,
2022
ASSETS			 
Current assets:	 		 
Cash and cash equivalents	$	745,889 			$	249,438 	
Restricted cash	35,203 			27,535 	
Accounts and notes receivable, net	116,426 			119,540 	
Inventories	7,129 			5,934 	
Prepaid expenses and other current assets	26,963 			30,584 	
Advertising funds restricted assets	126,673 			159,818 	
Total current assets	1,058,283 			592,849 	
Properties	895,778 			906,867 	
Finance lease assets	234,570 			244,279 	
Operating lease assets	754,498 			812,620 	
Goodwill	773,088 			775,278 	
Other intangible assets	1,248,800 			1,280,791 	
Investments	46,028 			49,870 	
Net investment in sales-type and direct financing leases	317,337 			299,707 	
Other assets	170,962 			139,130 	
Total assets	$	5,499,344 			$	5,101,391 	
LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY	 		 
Current liabilities:	 		 
Current portion of long-term debt	$	29,250 			$	24,250 	
Current portion of finance lease liabilities	18,316 			15,513 	
Current portion of operating lease liabilities	48,120 			47,315 	
Accounts payable	43,996 			41,163 	
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities	116,010 			140,783 	
Advertising funds restricted liabilities	132,307 			157,901 	
Total current liabilities	387,999 			426,925 	
Long-term debt	2,822,196 			2,356,416 	
Long-term finance lease liabilities	571,877 			559,587 	
Long-term operating lease liabilities	792,051 			853,328 	
Deferred income taxes	270,421 			267,710 	
Deferred franchise fees	90,231 			88,102 	
Other liabilities	98,849 			112,918 	
Total liabilities	5,033,624 			4,664,986 	
Commitments and contingencies			
Stockholders’ equity:	 		 
Common stock, $0.10 par value; 1,500,000 shares authorized;
470,424 shares issued; 213,101 and 215,849 shares outstanding, respectively
47,042 			47,042 	
Additional paid-in capital	2,937,885 			2,898,633 	
Retained earnings	414,749 			344,198 	
Common stock held in treasury, at cost; 257,323 and 254,575 shares, respectively
(2,869,780)			(2,805,268)	
Accumulated other comprehensive loss	(64,176)			(48,200)	
Total stockholders’ equity	465,720 			436,405 	
Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity	$	5,499,344 			$	5,101,391 	
 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
58
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)

 	Year Ended
January 1,
2023		January 2,
2022		January 3,
2021
Revenues:					
Sales	$	896,585 			$	734,074 			$	722,764 	
Franchise royalty revenue and fees	558,235 			536,748 			444,749 	
Franchise rental income	234,465 			236,655 			232,648 	
Advertising funds revenue	406,220 			389,521 			333,664 	
 	2,095,505 			1,896,998 			1,733,825 	
Costs and expenses:					
Cost of sales	773,169 			611,680 			614,907 	
Franchise support and other costs	46,736 			42,900 			26,464 	
Franchise rental expense	124,083 			132,411 			125,613 	
Advertising funds expense	430,760 			411,751 			345,360 	
General and administrative	254,979 			242,970 			206,876 	
Depreciation and amortization (exclusive of amortization of cloud computing arrangements shown separately below)	133,414 			125,540 			132,775 	
Amortization of cloud computing arrangements	2,394 			— 			— 	
System optimization gains, net	(6,779)			(33,545)			(3,148)	
Reorganization and realignment costs	698 			8,548 			16,030 	
Impairment of long-lived assets	6,420 			2,251 			8,037 	
Other operating income, net	(23,683)			(14,468)			(8,397)	
 	1,742,191 			1,530,038 			1,464,517 	
Operating profit	353,314 			366,960 			269,308 	
Interest expense, net	(122,319)			(109,185)			(117,737)	
Loss on early extinguishment of debt	— 			(17,917)			— 	
Investment income (loss), net	2,107 			39 			(225)	
Other income, net	10,403 			681 			1,449 	
Income before income taxes
243,505 			240,578 			152,795 	
Provision for income taxes	(66,135)			(40,186)			(34,963)	
Net income	$	177,370 			$	200,392 			$	117,832 	
Net income per share:
Basic	$	.83 			$	.91 			$	.53 	
Diluted	.82 			.89 			.52 	
 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
59
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(In Thousands)

Year Ended
January 1,
2023		January 2,
2022		January 3, 2021
Net income	$	177,370 			$	200,392 			$	117,832 	
Other comprehensive (loss) income:					
Foreign currency translation adjustment	(15,976)			1,441 			4,187 	
Other comprehensive (loss) income	(15,976)			1,441 			4,187 	
Comprehensive income	$	161,394 			$	201,833 			$	122,019 	
 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
60
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
(In Thousands)
Common
Stock		Additional
Paid-In
Capital		Retained Earnings		Common Stock Held in Treasury		Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss		Total
Balance at December 29, 2019	$	47,042 			$	2,874,001 			$	185,725 			$	(2,536,581)			$	(53,828)			$	516,359 	
     Net income	— 			— 			117,832 			— 			— 			117,832 	
     Other comprehensive income, net	— 			— 			— 			— 			4,187 			4,187 	
     Cash dividends	— 			— 			(64,866)			— 			— 			(64,866)	
     Repurchases of common stock,
          including accelerated share
          repurchase	— 			15,000 			— 			(76,095)			— 			(61,095)	
     Share-based compensation	— 			18,930 			— 			— 			— 			18,930 	
     Common stock issued upon
          exercises of stock options	— 			(912)			— 			24,263 			— 			23,351 	
     Common stock issued upon vesting
          of restricted shares	— 			(7,889)			— 			2,500 			— 			(5,389)	
     Other	— 			146 			(17)			158 			— 			287 	
Balance at January 3, 2021	47,042 			2,899,276 			238,674 			(2,585,755)			(49,641)			549,596 	
     Net income	— 			— 			200,392 			— 			— 			200,392 	
     Other comprehensive income, net	— 			— 			— 			— 			1,441 			1,441 	
     Cash dividends	— 			— 			(94,846)			— 			— 			(94,846)	
     Repurchases of common stock,
          including accelerated share
          repurchase	— 			(18,750)			— 			(249,058)			— 			(267,808)	
     Share-based compensation	— 			22,019 			— 			— 			— 			22,019 	
     Common stock issued upon
          exercises of stock options	— 			1,911 			— 			27,139 			— 			29,050 	
     Common stock issued upon vesting
          of restricted shares	— 			(6,023)			— 			2,285 			— 			(3,738)	
     Other	— 			200 			(22)			121 			— 			299 	
Balance at January 2, 2022	47,042 			2,898,633 			344,198 			(2,805,268)			(48,200)			436,405 	
     Net income	— 			— 			177,370 			— 			— 			177,370 	
     Other comprehensive loss, net	— 			— 			— 			— 			(15,976)			(15,976)	
     Cash dividends	— 			— 			(106,779)			— 			— 			(106,779)	
     Repurchases of common stock,
          including accelerated share
          repurchase	— 			18,750 			— 			(70,700)			— 			(51,950)	
     Share-based compensation	— 			24,538 			— 			— 			— 			24,538 	
     Common stock issued upon
          exercises of stock options	— 			1,117 			— 			3,461 			— 			4,578 	
     Common stock issued upon vesting
           of restricted shares	— 			(5,363)			— 			2,482 			— 			(2,881)	
     Other	— 			210 			(40)			245 			— 			415 	
Balance at January 1, 2023	$	47,042 			$	2,937,885 			$	414,749 			$	(2,869,780)			$	(64,176)			$	465,720 	
 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
61
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In Thousands)
 	Year Ended
January 1,
2023		January 2,
2022		January 3,
2021
Cash flows from operating activities:	 		 		
Net income	$	177,370 			$	200,392 			$	117,832 	
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:					
Depreciation and amortization (exclusive of amortization of cloud computing arrangements shown separately below)	133,414 			125,540 			132,775 	
Amortization of cloud computing arrangements	2,394 			— 			— 	
Share-based compensation	24,538 			22,019 			18,930 	
Impairment of long-lived assets	6,420 			2,251 			8,037 	
Deferred income tax	4,305 			(13,781)			10,266 	
Non-cash rental expense, net	33,915 			40,596 			28,937 	
Change in operating lease liabilities	(45,682)			(45,606)			(40,905)	
Net (recognition) receipt of deferred vendor incentives	(1,060)			715 			2,495 	
System optimization gains, net	(6,779)			(33,545)			(3,148)	
Gain on sale of investments, net	— 			(63)			— 	
Distributions received from TimWen joint venture	12,612 			16,337 			8,376 	
Equity in earnings in joint ventures, net	(9,422)			(11,203)			(6,096)	
Long-term debt-related activities, net (see Note 21)
7,762 			24,758 			6,723 	
Cloud computing arrangements expenditures	(30,220)			(14,086)			— 	
Other, net	(4,554)			844 			(6,438)	
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:					
Accounts and notes receivable, net	(5,857)			(5,613)			(16,243)	
Inventories	(1,203)			(872)			(841)	
Prepaid expenses and other current assets	6,769 			(3,396)			(8,780)	
Advertising funds restricted assets and liabilities	(30,503)			11,519 			49,052 	
Accounts payable	(1,533)			7,586 			1,620 	
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities	(12,782)			21,380 			(18,231)	
Net cash provided by operating activities	259,904 			345,772 			284,361 	
Cash flows from investing activities:	 				
Capital expenditures	(85,544)			(77,984)			(68,969)	
Franchise development fund	(3,605)			— 			— 	
Acquisitions	— 			(123,069)			(4,879)	
Dispositions	8,237 			55,118 			6,091 	
Proceeds from sale of investments	— 			63 			169 	
Notes receivable, net	3,136 			1,203 			(662)	
Payments for investments	— 			(10,000)			— 	
Net cash used in investing activities	(77,776)			(154,669)			(68,250)	
Cash flows from financing activities:	 				
Proceeds from long-term debt	500,000 			1,100,000 			153,315 	
Repayments of long-term debt	(26,750)			(970,344)			(191,462)	
Repayments of finance lease liabilities	(17,312)			(13,640)			(8,383)	
Deferred financing costs	(10,232)			(20,873)			(2,122)	
Repurchases of common stock, including accelerated share repurchase	(51,950)			(268,531)			(62,173)	
Dividends	(106,779)			(94,846)			(64,866)	
Proceeds from stock option exercises	4,865 			30,003 			23,361 	
Payments related to tax withholding for share-based compensation	(3,168)			(4,511)			(5,577)	
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities	288,674 			(242,742)			(157,907)	
Net cash provided by (used in) operations before effect of exchange rate changes on cash	470,802 			(51,639)			58,204 	
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash	(5,967)			364 			1,330 	
Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash	464,835 			(51,275)			59,534 	
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at beginning of period	366,966 			418,241 			358,707 	
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at end of period	$	831,801 			$	366,966 			$	418,241 	
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
62
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)

(1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Corporate Structure

The Wendy’s Company (“The Wendy’s Company” and, together with its subsidiaries, the “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our”) is the parent company of its 100% owned subsidiary holding company, Wendy’s Restaurants, LLC (“Wendy’s Restaurants”). Wendy’s Restaurants is the parent company of Wendy’s International, LLC and its subsidiaries (“Wendy’s”). Wendy’s franchises and operates Wendy’s quick-service restaurants specializing in hamburger sandwiches throughout the United States of America (“U.S.”) and in 31 foreign countries and U.S. territories. At January 1, 2023, Wendy’s operated and franchised 415 and 6,680 restaurants, respectively.

The Company manages and internally reports its business in the following segments: (1) Wendy’s U.S., (2) Wendy’s International and (3) Global Real Estate & Development. See Note 27 for further information.

Principles of Consolidation

The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) and include all of the Company’s subsidiaries. We also consider for consolidation entities in which we have certain interests, where the controlling financial interest may be achieved through arrangements that do not involve voting interests. Such an entity, known as a variable interest entity (“VIE”), is required to be consolidated by its primary beneficiary. The primary beneficiary is the entity that possesses the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact its economic performance and has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that are significant to it. The principal entities in which we possess a variable interest include the Company’s national advertising funds for the U.S. and Canada (the “Advertising Funds”). All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates due to risks and uncertainties, including uncertainty in the current economic environment due to the COVID-19 pandemic and other factors.

Reclassifications

Beginning in 2022, the Company has reclassified payments for cloud computing arrangements in the consolidated statements of cash flows to “Cloud computing arrangements expenditures,” which were previously recorded to “Other, net.” The prior period amounts in the consolidated statement of cash flows for 2021 reflect the reclassification of these cash flows to conform to the current year presentation. There was no impact to “Net cash provided by operating activities.” No payments for cloud computing arrangements were made by the Company in 2020.

The following table illustrates the reclassifications made to the consolidated statement of cash flows for 2021:
As Previously Reported		Reclassifications		As Currently Reported
Cloud computing arrangements expenditures	$	— 			$	(14,086)			$	(14,086)	
Other, net	(13,242)			14,086 			844 	
 

Fiscal Year

The Company’s fiscal reporting periods consist of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Sunday closest to December 31 and are referred to herein as (1) “the year ended January 1, 2023” or “2022,” which consisted of 52 weeks, (2) “the year ended January 2, 2022” or “2021,” which consisted of 52 weeks, and (3) “the year ended January 3, 2021” or “2020,” which consisted of 53 weeks. All references to years, quarters and months relate to fiscal periods rather than calendar periods.

63
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
Cash and Cash Equivalents

All highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less when acquired are considered cash equivalents. The Company’s cash and cash equivalents principally consist of cash in bank and money market mutual fund accounts and are primarily not in Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insured accounts.

We believe that our vulnerability to risk concentrations in our cash equivalents is mitigated by (1) our policies restricting the eligibility, credit quality and concentration limits for our placements in cash equivalents and (2) insurance from the Securities Investor Protection Corporation of up to $500 per account, as well as supplemental private insurance coverage maintained by substantially all of our brokerage firms, to the extent our cash equivalents are held in brokerage accounts.

Restricted Cash

In accordance with the Company’s securitized financing facility, certain cash accounts have been established with the trustee for the benefit of the trustee and the noteholders and are restricted in their use. Such restricted cash primarily represents cash collections and cash reserves held by the trustee to be used for payments of principal, interest and commitment fees required for the Company’s senior secured notes. Restricted cash also includes cash collected by the Advertising Funds, usage of which is restricted for advertising activities and is included in “Advertising funds restricted assets.” Refer to Note 7 for further information.

Accounts and Notes Receivable, Net

Accounts and notes receivable, net, consist primarily of royalties, rents, property taxes and franchise fees due principally from franchisees, delivery-related receivables, credit card receivables, insurance receivables and refundable income taxes. Reserve estimates include consideration of the likelihood of default expected over the estimated life of the receivable. The Company periodically assesses the need for an allowance for doubtful accounts on its receivables based upon several key credit quality indicators such as outstanding past due balances, the financial strength of the obligor, the estimated fair value of any underlying collateral and agreement characteristics.

We believe that our vulnerability to risk concentrations in our receivables is mitigated by (1) favorable historical collectability on past due balances, (2) recourse to the underlying collateral regarding sales-type and direct financing lease receivables, and (3) our expectations for fluctuations in general market conditions. Receivables are considered delinquent once they are contractually past due under the terms of the underlying agreements. See Note 7 for further information.

Inventories

The Company’s inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value, with cost determined in accordance with the first-in, first-out method and consist primarily of restaurant food items and paper supplies.

Cloud Computing Arrangements (“CCA”)

The Company capitalizes implementation costs associated with its CCA consistent with costs capitalized for internal-use software. Capitalized CCA implementation costs are included in “Prepaid expenses and other current assets” and “Other assets.” The CCA implementation costs are amortized over the term of the related hosting agreement, including renewal periods that are reasonably certain to be exercised. Amortization expense of CCA implementation costs is recorded to “Amortization of cloud computing arrangements.” The CCA implementation costs are included within operating activities in the Company’s consolidated statements of cash flows. See “Reclassifications” above for further information.

Properties and Depreciation and Amortization

Properties are stated at cost, including capitalized internal costs of employees to the extent such employees are dedicated to specific restaurant construction projects, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization of properties is computed principally on the straight-line basis using the following estimated useful lives of the related major classes of properties: three to 20 years for office and restaurant equipment (including technology), three to 15 years for transportation equipment and seven to 30 years for buildings and improvements. When the Company commits to a plan to cease using certain properties before the end of their estimated useful lives, depreciation expense is accelerated to reflect the use
64
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
of the assets over their shortened useful lives. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the terms of the respective leases, including periods covered by renewal options that the Company is reasonably assured of exercising.

The Company reviews properties for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset group may not be recoverable. If such review indicates an asset group may not be recoverable, an impairment loss is recognized for the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of an asset group to be held and used or over the fair value less cost to sell of an asset to be disposed. See “Impairment of Long-Lived Assets” below for further information.

The Company classifies assets as held for sale and ceases depreciation of the assets when there is a plan for disposal of the assets and those assets meet the held for sale criteria. Assets held for sale are included in “Prepaid expenses and other current assets” in the consolidated balance sheets.

Goodwill

Goodwill, representing the excess of the cost of an acquired entity over the fair value of the acquired net assets, is not amortized. Goodwill associated with our Company-operated restaurants is reduced as a result of restaurant dispositions based on the relative fair values and is included in the carrying value of the restaurant in determining the gain or loss on disposal. If a Company-operated restaurant is sold within two years of being acquired from a franchisee, the goodwill associated with the acquisition is written off in its entirety. Goodwill has been assigned to reporting units for purposes of impairment testing.  The Company tests goodwill for impairment annually during the fourth quarter, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. Our annual impairment test of goodwill may be completed through a qualitative assessment to determine if the fair value of the reporting unit is more likely than not greater than the carrying amount.  If we elect to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting units, or if a qualitative assessment indicates it is more likely than not that the estimated carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test. Under the quantitative test, the fair value of the reporting unit is compared with its carrying value (including goodwill).  If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. Our critical estimates in this impairment test include future sales growth, operating profit, income tax rates, terminal value growth rates, capital expenditures and the weighted average cost of capital (discount rate).

Our fair value estimates are subject to change as a result of many factors including, among others, any changes in our business plans, changing economic conditions and the competitive environment. Should actual cash flows and our future estimates vary adversely from those estimates we use, we may be required to recognize goodwill impairment charges in future years.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

Our long-lived assets include (1) properties and related definite-lived intangible assets (e.g., favorable leases) that are leased and/or subleased to franchisees, (2) Company-operated restaurant assets and related definite-lived intangible assets, which include reacquired rights under franchise agreements, and (3) finance and operating lease assets.

We review our long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. We assess the recoverability of our long-lived assets by comparing the carrying amount of the asset group to future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated through leases and/or subleases or by our individual Company-operated restaurants. If the carrying amount of the long-lived asset group is not recoverable on an undiscounted cash flow basis, then impairment is recognized to the extent that the carrying amount exceeds its fair value and is included in “Impairment of long-lived assets.” Our critical estimates in this review process include the anticipated future cash flows from leases and/or subleases or individual Company-operated restaurants, which is used in assessing the recoverability of the respective long-lived assets.

Our fair value estimates are subject to change as a result of many factors including, among others, any changes in our business plans, changing economic conditions and the competitive environment. Should actual cash flows and our future estimates vary adversely from those estimates we used, we may be required to recognize additional impairment charges in future years.
65
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)

Other Intangible Assets

Definite-lived intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis using the following estimated useful lives of the related classes of intangibles: for favorable leases, the terms of the respective leases, including periods covered by renewal options that the Company as lessor is reasonably certain the tenant will exercise; one to five years for computer software; two to 20 years for reacquired rights under franchise agreements; and 20 years for franchise agreements. Trademarks have an indefinite life and are not amortized.

The Company reviews definite-lived intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the intangible asset may not be recoverable. Indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the assets may be impaired. Our annual impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets may be completed through a qualitative assessment to determine if the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible assets is more likely than not greater than the carrying amount. If we elect to bypass the qualitative assessment, or if a qualitative assessment indicates it is more likely than not that the estimated carrying value exceeds the fair value, we test for impairment using a quantitative process. If the Company determines that impairment of its intangible assets may exist, the amount of impairment loss is measured as the excess of carrying value over fair value. Our critical estimates in the determination of the fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets include the anticipated future revenues of Company-operated and franchised restaurants and the resulting cash flows.

Investments

The Company has a 50% share in a partnership in a Canadian restaurant real estate joint venture (“TimWen”) with a subsidiary of Restaurant Brands International Inc., a quick-service restaurant company that owns the Tim Hortons® brand (Tim Hortons is a registered trademark of Tim Hortons USA Inc.). In addition, the Company has a 20% share in a joint venture in Brazil (the “Brazil JV”). The Company has significant influence over these investees. Such investments are accounted for using the equity method, under which our results of operations include our share of the income (loss) of the investees in “Other operating income, net.” Cash distributions and dividends received that are determined to be returns of capital are recorded as a reduction of the carrying value of our investments and returns on our investments are recorded to “Investment income (loss), net.”

The difference between the carrying value of our TimWen equity investment and the underlying equity in the historical net assets of the investee is accounted for as if the investee were a consolidated subsidiary. Accordingly, the carrying value difference is amortized over the estimated lives of the assets of the investee to which such difference would have been allocated if the equity investment were a consolidated subsidiary. To the extent the carrying value difference represents goodwill, it is not amortized.

Other investments in equity securities in which the Company does not have significant influence, and for which there is not a readily determinable fair value, are recorded at cost, less any impairment, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for an identical or similar investment of the same issuer. Realized gains and losses are reported as income or loss in the period in which the securities are sold or otherwise disposed.

Share-Based Compensation

The Company has granted share-based compensation awards to certain employees under several equity plans (the “Equity Plans”). The Company measures the cost of employee services received in exchange for an equity award, which include grants of employee stock options and restricted shares, based on the fair value of the award at the date of grant. Share-based compensation expense is recognized net of estimated forfeitures, determined based on historical experience. The Company recognizes share-based compensation expense over the requisite service period unless the awards are subject to performance conditions, in which case we recognize compensation expense over the requisite service period to the extent performance conditions are considered probable. The Company determines the grant date fair value of stock options using a Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model (the “Black-Scholes Model”). The grant date fair value of restricted share awards (“RSAs”), restricted share units (“RSUs”) and performance-based awards are determined using the fair market value of the Company’s common stock on the date of grant, as set forth in the applicable plan document, unless the awards are subject to market conditions, in which case we use a Monte Carlo simulation model. The Monte Carlo simulation model utilizes multiple input variables to estimate the probability that market conditions will be achieved.
66
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)

Foreign Currency Translation

The Company’s primary foreign operations are in Canada where the functional currency is the Canadian dollar. Financial statements of foreign subsidiaries are prepared in their functional currency and then translated into U.S. dollars. Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate as of the balance sheet date and revenues, costs and expenses are translated at a monthly average exchange rate. Net gains or losses resulting from the translation are recorded to the “Foreign currency translation adjustment” component of “Accumulated other comprehensive loss.” Gains and losses arising from the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on transactions in foreign currency are included in “General and administrative.”

Income Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method. A deferred tax asset or liability is recognized whenever there are (1) future tax effects from temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and (2) operating loss, capital loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to the years in which those differences are expected to be recovered or settled.

Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent the Company believes these assets will more likely than not be realized. In evaluating the realizability of deferred tax assets, the Company considers all available positive and negative evidence, including the interaction and the timing of future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, recent operating results and tax-planning strategies. When considered necessary, a valuation allowance is recorded to reduce the carrying amount of the deferred tax assets to their anticipated realizable value.

The Company records uncertain tax positions on the basis of a two-step process whereby we first determine if it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. A tax position that meets the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold is then measured for purposes of financial statement recognition as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon being effectively settled.

Interest accrued for uncertain tax positions is charged to “Interest expense, net.” Penalties accrued for uncertain tax positions are charged to “General and administrative.”

Restaurant Acquisitions and Dispositions

The Company accounts for the acquisition of restaurants from franchisees using the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations. The acquisition method of accounting involves the allocation of the purchase price to the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. This allocation process requires the use of estimates and assumptions to derive fair values and to complete the allocation. The excess of the purchase price over the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed represents goodwill derived from the acquisition. See “Goodwill” above for further information.

In connection with the sale of Company-operated restaurants to franchisees, the Company typically enters into several agreements, in addition to an asset purchase agreement, with franchisees including franchise, development, relationship and lease agreements. The Company typically sells restaurants’ cash, inventory and equipment and retains ownership or the leasehold interest to the real estate to lease and/or sublease to the franchisee. The Company has determined that its restaurant dispositions usually represent multiple-element arrangements, and as such, the cash consideration received is allocated to the separate elements based on their relative selling price. Cash consideration generally includes up-front consideration for the sale of the restaurants, technical assistance fees and development fees and future cash consideration for royalties and lease payments. The Company considers the future lease payments in allocating the initial cash consideration received. The Company obtains third-party evidence to estimate the relative selling price of the stated rent under the lease and/or sublease agreements which is primarily based upon comparable market rents. Based on the Company’s review of the third-party evidence, the Company records favorable or unfavorable lease assets/liabilities with a corresponding offset to the gain or loss on the sale of the restaurants. The cash consideration per restaurant for technical assistance fees and development fees is consistent with the amounts stated in the related franchise agreements which are charged for separate standalone arrangements. The Company recognizes the technical assistance and development fees over the contractual term of the franchise agreements. Future royalty income is also recognized in revenue as earned. See “Revenue Recognition” below for further information.
67
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)

Revenue Recognition

“Sales” includes revenues recognized upon delivery of food to the customer at Company-operated restaurants. “Sales” excludes taxes collected from the Company’s customers. Revenue is recognized when the food is purchased by the customer, which is when our performance obligation is satisfied. “Sales” also includes income for gift cards. Gift card payments are recorded as deferred income when received and are recognized as revenue upon redemption.

“Franchise royalty revenue and fees” includes royalties, new build technical assistance fees, renewal fees, franchisee-to- franchisee restaurant transfer (“Franchise Flip”) technical assistance fees, Franchise Flip advisory fees, development fees and information technology and other fees. Royalties from franchised restaurants are based on a percentage of sales of the franchised restaurant and are recognized as earned. New build technical assistance fees, renewal fees and Franchise Flip technical assistance fees are recorded as deferred revenue when received and recognized as revenue over the contractual term of the franchise agreements, once the restaurant has opened. Development fees are deferred when received, allocated to each agreed upon restaurant, and recognized as revenue over the contractual term of each respective franchise agreement, once the restaurant has opened. These franchise fees are considered highly dependent upon and interrelated with the franchise right granted in the franchise agreement. Franchise Flip advisory fees include valuation services and fees for selecting pre-approved buyers for Franchise Flips. Franchise Flip advisory fees are paid by the seller and are recognized as revenue at closing of the Franchise Flip transaction. Information technology and other fees are recognized as revenue as earned.

“Franchise rental income” includes rental income from properties owned and leased by the Company and leased or subleased to franchisees. Rental income is recognized on a straight-line basis over the respective operating lease terms. Favorable and unfavorable lease amounts related to the leased and/or subleased properties are amortized to rental income on a straight-line basis over the remaining term of the leases.

“Advertising funds revenue” includes contributions to the Advertising Funds by franchisees. Revenue related to these contributions is based on a percentage of sales of the franchised restaurants and is recognized as earned.

Cost of Sales

Cost of sales includes food and paper, restaurant labor and occupancy, advertising and other operating costs relating to Company-operated restaurants. Cost of sales excludes depreciation and amortization expense.

Vendor Incentives

The Company receives incentives from certain vendors. These incentives are recognized as earned and are classified as a reduction of “Cost of sales.”

Advertising Costs

Advertising costs are expensed as incurred and are included in “Cost of sales” and “Advertising funds expense.” Production costs of advertising are expensed when the advertisement is first released.

Franchise Support and Other Costs

The Company incurs costs to provide direct support services to our franchisees, as well as certain other direct and incremental costs to the Company’s franchise operations. These costs primarily relate to franchise development services, facilitating Franchise Flips and information technology services, which are charged to “Franchise support and other costs,” as incurred.

Self-Insurance

The Company is self-insured for most workers’ compensation losses and health care claims and purchases insurance for general liability and automotive liability losses, all subject to a $500 per occurrence retention or deductible limit. The Company provides for their estimated cost to settle both known claims and claims incurred but not yet reported. Liabilities associated with these claims are estimated, in part, by considering the frequency and severity of historical claims, both specific to us, as
68
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
well as industry-wide loss experience and other actuarial assumptions. We determine our insurance obligations with the assistance of actuarial firms. Since there are many estimates and assumptions involved in recording insurance liabilities and in the case of workers’ compensation a significant period of time elapses before the ultimate resolution of claims, differences between actual future events and prior estimates and assumptions could result in adjustments to these liabilities.

Leases

Determination of Whether a Contract Contains a Lease

The Company evaluates the contracts it enters into to determine whether such contracts contain leases. A contract contains a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of identified property, plant or equipment for a period of time in exchange for consideration. At commencement, contracts containing a lease are further evaluated for classification as an operating or finance lease where the Company is a lessee, or as an operating, sales-type or direct financing lease where the Company is a lessor, based on their terms.

ROU Model and Determination of Lease Term

The Company uses the right-of-use (“ROU”) model to account for leases where the Company is the lessee, which requires an entity to recognize a lease liability and ROU asset on the lease commencement date. A lease liability is measured equal to the present value of the remaining lease payments over the lease term and is discounted using the incremental borrowing rate, as the rate implicit in the Company’s leases is not readily determinable. The incremental borrowing rate is the rate of interest that the Company would have to pay to borrow, on a collateralized basis over a similar term, an amount equal to the lease payments in a similar economic environment. Lease payments include payments made before the commencement date and any residual value guarantees, if applicable. The initial ROU asset consists of the initial measurement of the lease liability, adjusted for any favorable or unfavorable terms for leases acquired from franchisees, as well as payments made before the commencement date, initial direct costs and lease incentives earned. When determining the lease term, the Company includes option periods that it is reasonably certain to exercise as failure to renew the lease would impose a significant economic detriment. For properties used for Company-operated restaurants, the primary economic detriment relates to the existence of unamortized leasehold improvements which might be impaired if we choose not to exercise the available renewal options. The lease term for properties leased or subleased to franchisees is determined based upon the economic detriment to the franchisee and includes consideration of the length of the franchise agreement and historical performance of the restaurant. Lease terms for real estate are generally initially between 15 and 20 years and, in most cases, provide for rent escalations and renewal options.

Operating Leases

For operating leases, minimum lease payments or receipts, including minimum scheduled rent increases, are recognized as rent expense where the Company is a lessee, or income where the Company is a lessor, as applicable, on a straight-line basis (“Straight-Line Rent”) over the applicable lease terms. There is a period under certain lease agreements referred to as a rent holiday (“Rent Holiday”) that generally begins on the possession date and ends on the rent commencement date. During a Rent Holiday, no cash rent payments are typically due under the terms of the lease; however, expense is recorded for that period on a straight-line basis. The excess of the Straight-Line Rent over the minimum rents paid is included in the ROU asset where the Company is a lessee. The excess of the Straight-Line Rent over the minimum rents received is recorded as a deferred lease asset and is included in “Other assets” where the Company is a lessor. Certain leases contain provisions, referred to as contingent rent (“Contingent Rent”), that require additional rental payments based upon restaurant sales volume. Contingent Rent is recognized each period as the liability is incurred or the asset is earned.

Lease cost for operating leases includes the amortization of the ROU asset and interest expense related to the operating lease liability. Variable lease cost for operating leases includes Contingent Rent and payments for executory costs such as real estate taxes, insurance and common area maintenance, which are excluded from the measurement of the lease liability. Short-term lease cost for operating leases includes rental expense for leases with a term of less than 12 months. Lease costs are recorded in the consolidated statements of operations based on the nature of the underlying lease as follows: (1) rental expense related to leases for Company-operated restaurants is recorded to “Cost of sales,” (2) rental expense for leased properties that are subsequently subleased to franchisees is recorded to “Franchise rental expense” and (3) rental expense related to leases for corporate offices and equipment is recorded to “General and administrative.”

69
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
Favorable and unfavorable lease amounts for operating leases where the Company is the lessor are recorded as components of “Other intangible assets” and “Other liabilities,” respectively. Favorable and unfavorable lease amounts are amortized on a straight-line basis over the term of the leases.

Rental income and favorable and unfavorable lease amortization for operating leases on properties leased or subleased to franchisees is recorded to “Franchise rental income.” Lessees’ variable payments to the Company for executory costs under operating leases are recognized on a gross basis as “Franchise rental income” with a corresponding expense recorded to “Franchise rental expense.”

Finance Leases

Lease cost for finance leases where the Company is the lessee includes the amortization of the ROU asset, which is amortized on a straight-line basis and recorded to “Depreciation and amortization (exclusive of amortization of cloud computing arrangements shown separately below),” and interest expense on the finance lease liability, which is calculated using the interest method and recorded to “Interest expense, net.” Finance lease ROU assets are amortized over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the terms of the respective leases, including periods covered by renewal options that the Company is reasonably certain of exercising.

Sales-Type and Direct Financing Leases

For sales-type and direct financing leases where the Company is the lessor, the Company records its investment in properties leased to franchisees on a net basis, which is comprised of the present value of the lease payments not yet received and the present value of the guaranteed and unguaranteed residual assets. The current and long-term portions of our net investment in sales-type and direct financing leases are included in “Accounts and notes receivable, net” and “Net investment in sales-type and direct financing leases,” respectively. Unearned income is recognized as interest income over the lease term and is included in “Interest expense, net.” Sales-type leases result in the recognition of gain or loss at the commencement of the lease, which is recorded to “Other operating income, net.” The gain or loss recognized upon commencement of the lease is directly affected by the Company’s estimate of the amount to be derived from the guaranteed and unguaranteed residual assets at the end of the lease term. The Company’s main component of this estimate is the expected fair value of the underlying assets, primarily the fair value of land. Lessees’ variable payments to the Company for executory costs under sales-type and direct financing leases are recognized on a gross basis as “Franchise rental income” with a corresponding expense recorded to “Franchise rental expense.”

Significant Assumptions and Judgments

Management makes certain estimates and assumptions regarding each new lease and sublease agreement, renewal and amendment, including, but not limited to, property values, market rents, property lives, discount rates and probable term, all of which can impact (1) the classification and accounting for a lease or sublease as operating or finance, including sales-type and direct financing, (2) the Rent Holiday and escalations in payment that are taken into consideration when calculating Straight-Line Rent, (3) the term over which leasehold improvements for each restaurant are amortized and (4) the values and lives of adjustments to the initial ROU asset where the Company is the lessee, or favorable and unfavorable leases where the Company is the lessor. The amount of depreciation and amortization, interest and rent expense and income reported would vary if different estimates and assumptions were used.

Concentration of Risk

Wendy’s had no customers which accounted for 10% or more of consolidated revenues in 2022, 2021 or 2020. As of January 1, 2023, Wendy’s had one main in-line distributor of food, packaging and beverage products, excluding breads, that serviced approximately 67% of Wendy’s restaurants in the U.S. and four additional in-line distributors that, in the aggregate, serviced approximately 32% of Wendy’s restaurants in the U.S. We believe that our vulnerability to risk concentrations related to significant vendors and sources of our raw materials is mitigated as we believe that there are other vendors who would be able to service our requirements. However, if a disruption of service from any of our main in-line distributors was to occur, we could experience short-term increases in our costs while distribution channels were adjusted.

Wendy’s restaurants are principally located throughout the U.S. and to a lesser extent, in 31 foreign countries and U.S. territories, with the largest number in Canada. Wendy’s U.S. restaurants are located in 50 states and the District of Columbia,
70
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
with the largest number in Florida, Texas, Ohio, Georgia, California, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Michigan. Because our restaurant operations are generally located throughout the U.S. and to a much lesser extent, Canada and other foreign countries and U.S. territories, we believe the risk of geographic concentration is not significant. We could be adversely affected by changing consumer preferences resulting from concerns over nutritional or safety aspects of beef, chicken, french fries or other products we sell or the effects of food safety events or disease outbreaks. Our exposure to foreign exchange risk is primarily related to fluctuations in the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar for our Canadian operations. However, our exposure to Canadian dollar foreign currency risk is mitigated by the fact that there are no Company-operated restaurants in Canada and less than 10% of Wendy’s franchised restaurants are in Canada.

The Company is subject to credit risk through its accounts receivable consisting primarily of amounts due from franchisees for royalties, franchise fees and rent. In addition, we have notes receivable from certain of our franchisees. The financial condition of these franchisees is largely dependent upon the underlying business trends of the Wendy’s brand and market conditions within the quick-service restaurant industry. This concentration of credit risk is mitigated, in part, by the number of franchisees and the short-term nature of the franchise receivables.

New Accounting Standards Adopted

Financial Instruments

In August 2020, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an amendment that simplifies the accounting for certain financial instruments with characteristics of liabilities and equity, including convertible instruments and contracts on an entity’s own equity. The amendment simplifies accounting for convertible instruments by removing major separation models required under current accounting guidance. In addition, the amendment removes certain settlement conditions that are required for equity contracts to qualify for the derivative scope exception, which will permit more equity contracts to qualify for the exception, and also simplifies the diluted earnings per share calculation in certain areas. The Company adopted this amendment during the first quarter of 2022. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

New Accounting Standards

Business Combinations

In October 2021, the FASB issued an amendment to improve the accounting for revenue contracts with customers acquired in a business combination. The amendment requires contract assets and contract liabilities acquired in a business combination to be recognized and measured by the acquirer on the acquisition date in accordance with current revenue recognition guidance as if the acquirer had originated the contracts. The standard is effective beginning with our 2023 fiscal year. The Company does not expect the guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

Reference Rate Reform

In March 2020, the FASB issued guidance to provide temporary optional expedients and exceptions to current reference rate reform guidance to ease the financial reporting burdens related to the expected market transition from the London interbank offered rate (“LIBOR”) and other interbank offered rates to alternative reference rates. The guidance, as amended, was effective upon issuance and may be applied prospectively to applicable contract modifications through December 31, 2024. We are currently evaluating the impact of the transition from LIBOR to alternative reference rates but do not anticipate the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

71
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
(2) Revenue

Nature of Goods and Services

The Company generates revenues from sales at Company-operated restaurants and earns royalties, fees and rental income from franchised restaurants. Revenues are recognized upon delivery of food to the customer at Company-operated restaurants or upon the fulfillment of terms outlined in the franchise agreement for franchised restaurants. The franchise agreement provides the franchisee the right to construct, own and operate a Wendy’s restaurant upon a site accepted by Wendy’s and to use the Wendy’s system in connection with the operation of the restaurant at that site. The franchise agreement generally provides for a 20-year term and a 10-year renewal subject to certain conditions. The initial term may be extended up to 25 years and the renewal extended up to 20 years for qualifying restaurants under certain new restaurant development and reimaging programs.

The franchise agreement requires that the franchisee pay a royalty based on a percentage of sales at the franchised restaurant, as well as make contributions to the Advertising Funds based on a percentage of sales. Wendy’s may offer development incentive programs from time to time that provide for a discount or lesser royalty amount or Advertising Fund contribution for a limited period of time. The agreement also typically requires that the franchisee pay Wendy’s a technical assistance fee. The technical assistance fee is used to defray some of the costs to Wendy’s for training, start-up and transitional services related to new and existing franchisees acquiring restaurants and in the development and opening of new restaurants. The franchise agreement also requires that the franchisee pay an annual fee for technology services. The technology fee is a flat fee dependent on each restaurant’s sales.

Wendy’s also enters into development agreements with certain franchisees. The development agreement generally provides the franchisee with the right to develop a specified number of new Wendy’s restaurants using the Image Activation design within a stated, non-exclusive territory for a specified period, subject to the franchisee meeting interim new restaurant development requirements.

Wendy’s owns and leases sites from third parties, which it leases and/or subleases to franchisees. Noncancelable lease terms are generally initially between 15 and 20 years and, in most cases, provide for rent escalations and renewal options. The initial lease term for properties leased or subleased to franchisees is generally set to be coterminous with the initial 20-year term of the related franchise agreement and any renewal term is coterminous with the 10-year renewal term of the related franchise agreement.

Royalties and contributions to the Advertising Funds are generally due within the month subsequent to which the revenue was generated through sales at the franchised restaurant. Technical assistance fees and renewal fees are generally due upon execution of the related franchise agreement. Annual technology fees are due in quarterly installments. Rental income is due in accordance with the terms of each lease, which is generally at the beginning of each month.

72
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
Disaggregation of Revenue

The following tables disaggregate revenue by segment and source for 2022, 2021 and 2020:
Wendy’s U.S.		Wendy’s International		Global Real Estate & Development		Total
2022							
Sales at Company-operated restaurants	$	882,684 			$	13,901 			$	— 			$	896,585 	
Franchise royalty revenue	423,955 			61,533 			— 			485,488 	
Franchise fees	63,112 			5,542 			4,093 			72,747 	
Franchise rental income	— 			— 			234,465 			234,465 	
Advertising funds revenue	380,491 			25,729 			— 			406,220 	
Total revenues	$	1,750,242 			$	106,705 			$	238,558 			$	2,095,505 	
2021							
Sales at Company-operated restaurants	$	730,415 			$	3,659 			$	— 			$	734,074 	
Franchise royalty revenue	407,317 			53,392 			— 			460,709 	
Franchise fees	64,170 			5,391 			6,478 			76,039 	
Franchise rental income	— 			— 			236,655 			236,655 	
Advertising funds revenue	365,594 			23,927 			— 			389,521 	
Total revenues	$	1,567,496 			$	86,369 			$	243,133 			$	1,896,998 	
2020							
Sales at Company-operated restaurants	$	722,764 			$	— 			$	— 			$	722,764 	
Franchise royalty revenue	373,162 			43,346 			— 			416,508 	
Franchise fees	22,126 			1,962 			4,153 			28,241 	
Franchise rental income	— 			— 			232,648 			232,648 	
Advertising funds revenue	313,330 			20,334 			— 			333,664 	
Total revenues	$	1,431,382 			$	65,642 			$	236,801 			$	1,733,825 	
 

Contract Balances

The following table provides information about receivables and contract liabilities (deferred franchise fees) from contracts with customers:
Year End
January 1,
2023 (a)		January 2,
2022 (a)
Receivables, which are included in “Accounts and notes receivable, net” (b)
$	54,497 			$	49,168 	
Receivables, which are included in “Advertising funds restricted assets”
70,422 			65,497 	
Deferred franchise fees (c)	99,208 			97,186 	
 
_______________

(a)Excludes funds collected from the sale of gift cards, which are primarily reimbursed to franchisees upon redemption at franchised restaurants and do not ultimately result in the recognition of revenue in the Company’s consolidated statements of operations.

(b)Includes receivables related to “Sales” and “Franchise royalty revenue and fees.”

73
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
(c)Deferred franchise fees are included in “Accrued expenses and other current liabilities” and “Deferred franchise fees” and totaled $8,977 and $90,231, respectively, as of January 1, 2023, and $9,084 and $88,102, respectively, as of January 2, 2022.

Significant changes in deferred franchise fees are as follows:
Year Ended
2022		2021		2020
Deferred franchise fees at beginning of period	$	97,186 			$	97,785 			$	100,689 	
Revenue recognized during the period
(11,567)			(19,838)			(8,955)	
New deferrals due to cash received and other	13,589 			19,239 			6,051 	
Deferred franchise fees at end of period	$	99,208 			$	97,186 			$	97,785 	
 

Anticipated Future Recognition of Deferred Franchise Fees

The following table reflects the estimated franchise fees to be recognized in the future related to performance obligations that are unsatisfied at the end of the period:
Estimate for fiscal year:	
2023	$	8,977 	
2024	5,835 	
2025	5,669 	
2026	5,559 	
2027	5,482 	
Thereafter	67,686 	
$	99,208 	
 

74
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
(3) Acquisitions

During 2021, the Company acquired 93 restaurants from a franchisee. The Company completed no significant acquisitions of restaurants from franchisees during 2022 or 2020. The Company did not incur any material acquisition-related costs associated with the acquisition in 2021 and such transaction was not significant to our consolidated financial statements. The table below presents the allocation of the total purchase price to the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed for restaurants acquired from a franchisee:
Year Ended
2021 (a)
Restaurants acquired from franchisee (b)	93 	
Total consideration paid, net of cash received	$	127,948 	
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed:	
Properties	21,984 	
Acquired franchise rights	81,239 	
Finance lease assets	25,547 	
Operating lease assets	44,282 	
Finance lease liabilities	(25,059)	
Operating lease liabilities	(43,478)	
Other	(9)	
Total identifiable net assets	104,506 	
Goodwill	$	23,442 	
 
_______________

(a)The fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed related to restaurants acquired in 2021 were provisional amounts as of January 2, 2022, pending final purchase accounting adjustments. The Company finalized the purchase price allocation during 2022, which resulted in an increase in cash received of $260.

(b)Included two restaurants under construction and not operating as of January 2, 2022.

NPC Quality Burgers, Inc. (“NPC”)

As previously announced, NPC, formerly the Company’s largest franchisee, filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy in July 2020 and commenced a process to sell all or substantially all of its assets, including its interest in approximately 393 Wendy’s restaurants across eight different markets, pursuant to a court-approved auction process. On November 18, 2020, the Company submitted a consortium bid together with a group of pre-qualified franchisees to acquire NPC’s Wendy’s restaurants. Under the terms of the consortium bid, several existing and new franchisees would have been the ultimate purchasers of seven of the NPC markets, while the Company would have acquired one market. As part of the consortium bid, the Company submitted a deposit of $43,240. The deposit included $38,361 received from the group of prequalified franchisees, which was payable to the franchisees pending resolution of the bankruptcy sale process.

During the three months ended April 4, 2021, following a court-approved mediation process, NPC and certain affiliates of Flynn Restaurant Group (“FRG”) and the Company entered into separate asset purchase agreements under which all of NPC’s Wendy’s restaurants were sold to Wendy’s approved franchisees. Under the transaction, FRG acquired approximately half of NPC’s Wendy’s restaurants in four markets, while several existing Wendy’s franchisees that were part of the Company’s consortium bid acquired the other half of NPC’s Wendy’s restaurants in the other four markets. The Company did not acquire any restaurants as part of this transaction. In addition, the deposits outstanding as of January 3, 2021 were settled during the three months ended April 4, 2021 upon resolution of the bankruptcy sale process. The net settlement of deposits of $4,879 is included in “Acquisitions” in the consolidated statements of cash flows.

75
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
(4) System Optimization Gains, Net

The Company’s system optimization initiative included a shift from Company-operated restaurants to franchised restaurants over time, through acquisitions and dispositions, as well as facilitating Franchise Flips. As of January 1, 2017, the Company achieved its plan to reduce its ongoing Company-operated restaurant ownership to approximately 5% of the total system. While the Company has no plans to move its ownership away from approximately 5% of the total system, the Company expects to continue to optimize the Wendy’s system through Franchise Flips, as well as evaluating strategic acquisitions of franchised restaurants and strategic dispositions of Company-operated restaurants to existing and new franchisees, to further strengthen the franchisee base, drive new restaurant development and accelerate reimages. During 2022, 2021 and 2020, the Company facilitated 79, 34 and 54 Franchise Flips, respectively. Additionally, during 2021, the Company completed the sale of 47 Company-operated restaurants in New York (including Manhattan) to franchisees and, during each of 2022 and 2020, the Company completed the sale of one Company-operated restaurant to a franchisee.

Gains and losses recognized on dispositions are recorded to “System optimization gains, net” in our consolidated statements of operations. Costs related to acquisitions and dispositions under our system optimization initiative are recorded to “Reorganization and realignment costs,” which are further described in Note 5. All other costs incurred related to facilitating Franchise Flips are recorded to “Franchise support and other costs.”

The following is a summary of the disposition activity recorded as a result of our system optimization initiative:
Year Ended
2022		2021		2020
Number of restaurants sold to franchisees	1 			47 			1 	
Proceeds from sales of restaurants (a)	$	79 			$	50,518 			$	50 	
Net assets sold (b)	(141)			(16,939)			(34)	
Goodwill related to sales of restaurants	— 			(4,847)			— 	
Net unfavorable leases (c)	(360)			(2,939)			— 	
Gain on sales-type leases	— 			7,156 			— 	
Other (d)	6 			(2,148)			— 	
(416)			30,801 			16 	
Post-closing adjustments on sales of restaurants (e) (f)	2,877 			1,218 			362 	
Gain on sales of restaurants, net	2,461 			32,019 			378 	
Gain on sales of other assets, net (g)	4,318 			1,526 			2,770 	
System optimization gains, net	$	6,779 			$	33,545 			$	3,148 	
 
_______________

(a)In addition to the proceeds noted herein, the Company received cash proceeds of $378 and $39 during 2022 and 2021, respectively, related to a note receivable issued in connection with the sale of the Manhattan Company-operated restaurants.

(b)Net assets sold consisted primarily of equipment.

(c)During 2021, the Company recorded favorable lease assets of $3,799 and unfavorable lease liabilities of $6,738 as a result of leasing and/or subleasing land, buildings and/or leasehold improvements to franchisees, in connection with the sale of the New York Company-operated restaurants (including Manhattan).

(d)2021 includes a deferred gain of $3,500 as a result of certain contingencies related to the extension of lease terms.

(e)2021 includes a gain on sales-type leases of $1,625 and the write-off of certain lease assets of $927 as a result of an amendment to lease terms in connection with a Manhattan Company-operated restaurant previously sold to a franchisee.
76
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)

(f)2022, 2021 and 2020 include the recognition of deferred gains of $3,522, $515 and $368, respectively, as a result of the resolution of certain contingencies related to the extension of lease terms for restaurants previously sold to franchisees.

(g)During 2022, 2021 and 2020, the Company received cash proceeds of $7,780, $4,561 and $6,041, respectively, primarily from the sale of surplus and other properties.

Assets Held for Sale

As of January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022, the Company had assets held for sale of $1,661 and $3,541, respectively, primarily consisting of surplus properties. Assets held for sale are included in “Prepaid expenses and other current assets.”

(5) Reorganization and Realignment Costs

The following is a summary of the initiatives included in “Reorganization and realignment costs:”
Year Ended
2022		2021		2020
Operations and field realignment	$	59 			$	1,758 			$	3,801 	
IT realignment	32 			(10)			7,288 	
G&A realignment	(4)			(52)			614 	
System optimization initiative	611 			6,852 			4,327 	
Reorganization and realignment costs	$	698 			$	8,548 			$	16,030 	
 

Operations and Field Realignment

In September 2020, the Company initiated a plan to reallocate resources to better support the long-term growth strategies for Company and franchise operations (the “Operations and Field Realignment Plan”). The Operations and Field Realignment Plan realigned the Company’s restaurant operations team, including transitioning from separate leaders of Company and franchise operations to a single leader of all U.S. restaurant operations. The Operations and Field Realignment Plan also included contract terminations, including the closure of certain field offices. During 2021 and 2020, the Company recognized costs totaling $1,758 and $3,801, respectively, which primarily included third-party and other costs in 2021 and severance and related employee costs and share-based compensation in 2020. The Company does not expect to incur any material additional costs under the Operations and Field Realignment Plan.

The following is a summary of the activity recorded as a result of the Operations and Field Realignment Plan:
Year Ended		Total Incurred Since Inception
2022		2021		2020	
Severance and related employee costs	$	7 			$	270 			$	3,113 			$	3,390 	
Third-party and other costs	52 			1,488 			67 			1,607 	
59 			1,758 			3,180 			4,997 	
Share-based compensation (a)	— 			— 			621 			621 	
Total operations and field realignment	$	59 			$	1,758 			$	3,801 			$	5,618 	
 
_______________

(a)Primarily represents incremental share-based compensation resulting from the modification of stock options in connection with the termination of employees under the Operations and Field Realignment Plan.

77
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
The tables below present a rollforward of our accruals for the Operations and Field Realignment Plan, which are included in “Accrued expenses and other current liabilities” as of January 2, 2022.
Balance January 2, 2022
Charges		Payments		
Balance January 1, 2023
Severance and related employee costs	$	155 			$	7 			$	(162)			$	— 	
Third-party and other costs	11 			52 			(63)			— 	
$	166 			$	59 			$	(225)			$	— 	
 
Balance January 3, 2021
Charges		Payments		
Balance January 2, 2022
Severance and related employee costs	$	2,600 			$	270 			$	(2,715)			$	155 	
Third-party and other costs	— 			1,488 			(1,477)			11 	
$	2,600 			$	1,758 			$	(4,192)			$	166 	
 

Information Technology (“IT”) Realignment

In December 2019, our Board of Directors approved a plan to realign and reinvest resources in the Company’s IT organization to strengthen its ability to accelerate growth (the “IT Realignment Plan”). The Company has partnered with a third-party global IT consultant on this new structure to leverage their global capabilities, enabling a more seamless integration between its digital and corporate IT assets. The IT Realignment Plan has reduced certain employee compensation and other related costs that the Company has reinvested back into IT to drive additional capabilities and capacity across all of its technology platforms. Additionally, in June 2020, the Company made changes to its leadership structure that included the elimination of the Chief Digital Experience Officer position and the creation of a Chief Information Officer position. During 2020, the Company recognized costs totaling $7,288, which primarily included third-party and other costs and recruitment and relocation costs. The Company does not expect to incur any material additional costs under the IT Realignment Plan.

The following is a summary of the activity recorded as a result of the IT Realignment Plan:
Year Ended		Total Incurred Since Inception
2022		2021		2020	
Severance and related employee costs (a)	$	— 			$	(165)			$	843 			$	8,226 	
Recruitment and relocation costs	29 			146 			1,296 			1,471 	
Third-party and other costs	3 			9 			5,149 			6,547 	
32 			(10)			7,288 			16,244 	
Share-based compensation (b)	— 			— 			— 			193 	
Total IT realignment	$	32 			$	(10)			$	7,288 			$	16,437 	
 
_______________

(a)2021 includes a reversal of an accrual as a result of a change in estimate.

(b)Primarily represents incremental share-based compensation resulting from the modification of stock options in connection with the termination of employees under the IT realignment plan.

General and Administrative (“G&A”) Realignment

In May 2017, the Company initiated a plan to reduce its G&A expenses (the “G&A Realignment Plan”). No material costs were incurred by the Company under the G&A Realignment Plan during 2022, 2021 and 2020. The Company does not expect to incur any material additional costs under the G&A Realignment Plan.
78
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)

System Optimization Initiative

The Company recognizes costs related to acquisitions and dispositions under its system optimization initiative. During 2022, the Company recognized costs totaling $611, which were primarily comprised of professional fees and other costs associated with the Company’s acquisition of 93 franchise-operated restaurants in Florida during the fourth quarter of 2021. During 2021, the Company recognized costs totaling $6,852, which were primarily comprised of the write-off of certain lease assets, lease termination fees and transaction fees associated with the NPC bankruptcy sale process, as well as professional fees and transaction fees associated with the Company’s acquisition of 93 franchise-operated restaurants in Florida during the fourth quarter of 2021. During 2020, the Company recognized costs totaling $4,327, which primarily included professional fees related to the NPC bankruptcy sale process. See Note 3 for further information. The Company expects to recognize a gain of approximately $700, primarily related to the write-off of certain NPC-related lease liabilities upon final termination of the leases.

The following is a summary of the costs recorded as a result of our system optimization initiative:
Year Ended		Total Incurred Since Inception
2022		2021		2020	
Severance and related employee costs	$	4 			$	661 			$	— 			$	18,902 	
Professional fees	395 			1,570 			4,323 			24,072 	
Other (a)	145 			1,765 			4 			7,763 	
544 			3,996 			4,327 			50,737 	
Accelerated depreciation and amortization (b)	— 			— 			— 			25,398 	
NPC lease termination costs (c)	67 			2,856 			— 			2,923 	
Share-based compensation (d)	— 			— 			— 			5,013 	
Total system optimization initiative	$	611 			$	6,852 			$	4,327 			$	84,071 	
 
_______________

(a)2021 includes transaction fees of $1,350 associated with the NPC bankruptcy sale process.

(b)Primarily includes accelerated amortization of previously acquired franchise rights related to the Company-operated restaurants in territories that have been sold to franchisees in connection with our system optimization initiative.

(c)2021 includes the write-off of lease assets of $1,376 and lease termination fees paid of $1,480.

(d)Represents incremental share-based compensation resulting from the modification of stock options and performance-based awards in connection with the termination of employees under our system optimization initiative.

The table below presents a rollforward of our accruals for our system optimization initiative.
Balance January 3, 2021
Charges		Payments		
Balance January 2, 2022
Severance and related employee costs	$	— 			$	661 			$	(661)			$	— 	
Professional fees	1,230 			1,570 			(2,800)			— 	
Other	— 			1,765 			(1,765)			— 	
$	1,230 			$	3,996 			$	(5,226)			$	— 	
 

79
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
Organizational Redesign

On February 16, 2023, the Board of Directors approved a plan to redesign the Company’s organizational structure to better support the execution of the Company’s long-term growth strategy by maximizing organizational efficiency and streamlining decision making. As a result of the redesign, the Company expects to hold its general and administrative expense in 2023 and 2024 relatively flat compared with 2022. The Company expects to incur total costs of approximately $11,000 to $13,000 related to these savings. The total costs expected to be incurred are comprised of (1) severance and related employee costs of approximately $8,000, (2) recruitment and relocation costs of approximately $1,000, (3) third-party and other costs of approximately $1,000 and (4) share-based compensation of approximately $2,000. The Company expects costs to be recognized during 2023 and continue into 2026, with approximately three-fourths to be recognized during 2023.

(6) Net Income Per Share

The calculation of basic and diluted net income per share was as follows:
Year Ended
2022		2021		2020
Net income	$	177,370 			$	200,392 			$	117,832 	
Common stock:					
Weighted average basic shares outstanding	213,766 			221,375 			223,684 	
Dilutive effect of stock options and restricted shares	2,073 			3,030 			4,330 	
Weighted average diluted shares outstanding	215,839 			224,405 			228,014 	
Net income per share:					
Basic	$	.83 			$	.91 			$	.53 	
Diluted	$	.82 			$	.89 			$	.52 	
 

Basic net income per share for 2022, 2021 and 2020 was computed by dividing net income amounts by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding. Diluted net income per share was computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of basic shares outstanding plus the potential common share effect of dilutive stock options and restricted shares. We excluded potential common shares of 4,443, 2,404 and 2,064 for 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, from our diluted net income per share calculation as they would have had anti-dilutive effects.

(7) Cash and Receivables
Year End
January 1, 2023		January 2, 2022
Cash and cash equivalents			
Cash	$	185,207 			$	249,438 	
Cash equivalents	560,682 			— 	
745,889 			249,438 	
Restricted cash			
Accounts held by trustee for the securitized financing facility	34,850 			27,188 	
Other	353 			347 	
35,203 			27,535 	
Advertising Funds (a)	50,709 			89,993 	
85,912 			117,528 	
Total cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash
$	831,801 			$	366,966 	
 
_______________
80
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)

(a)Included in “Advertising funds restricted assets.”

Year End
January 1, 2023		January 2, 2022
Gross		Allowance for Doubtful Accounts		Net		Gross		Allowance for Doubtful Accounts		Net
Accounts and Notes Receivable, Net											
Current											
Accounts receivable (a)	$	100,270 			$	(1,707)			$	98,563 			$	104,744 			$	(3,229)			$	101,515 	
Notes receivable from franchisees (b) (c)	22,503 			(4,640)			17,863 			23,000 			(4,975)			18,025 	
$	122,773 			$	(6,347)			$	116,426 			$	127,744 			$	(8,204)			$	119,540 	
Non-current (d)											
Notes receivable from franchisees (c)	$	3,888 			$	— 			$	3,888 			$	4,514 			$	(315)			$	4,199 	
 
_______________

(a)Includes income tax refund receivables of $3,236 and $11,901 as of January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022, respectively.

(b)Includes the current portion of sales-type and direct financing lease receivables of $8,263 and $6,266 as of January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022, respectively. See Note 20 for further information.

Includes a note receivable from a franchisee in Indonesia of $1,153 and $1,795 as of January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022, respectively.

(c)Includes notes receivable related to the Brazil JV, of which $13,087 and $12,925 are included in current notes receivable and $3,888 and $4,200 are included in non-current notes receivable as of January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022, respectively. As of both January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022, the Company had reserves of $4,640 on the loans outstanding related to the Brazil JV. See Note 8 for further information.

As of January 2, 2022, included a note receivable from a franchisee in India, of which $335 was included in current notes receivable and $315 was included in non-current notes receivable. As of January 2, 2022, the Company had reserves of $650 on the loan. During 2022, the Company received a payment of $350 from the franchisee and the remaining note receivable balance and related reserve were written off.

(d)Included in “Other assets.”

81
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
The following is an analysis of the allowance for doubtful accounts:
Accounts Receivable		Notes Receivable		Total
2022					
Balance at January 2, 2022
$	3,229 			$	5,290 			$	8,519 	
Provision for doubtful accounts	(565)			(350)			(915)	
Uncollectible accounts written off, net of recoveries	(957)			(300)			(1,257)	
Balance at January 1, 2023
$	1,707 			$	4,640 			$	6,347 	
2021					
Balance at January 3, 2021
$	3,739 			$	5,625 			$	9,364 	
Provision for doubtful accounts	(148)			(335)			(483)	
Uncollectible accounts written off, net of recoveries	(362)			— 			(362)	
Balance at January 2, 2022
$	3,229 			$	5,290 			$	8,519 	
2020					
Balance at December 29, 2019
$	3,314 			$	6,705 			$	10,019 	
Provision for doubtful accounts	647 			206 			853 	
Uncollectible accounts written off, net of recoveries	(222)			(1,286)			(1,508)	
Balance at January 3, 2021
$	3,739 			$	5,625 			$	9,364 	
 

(8) Investments

The following is a summary of the carrying value of our investments:
Year End
January 1,
2023		January 2,
2022
Equity method investments	$	33,921 			$	39,870 	
Other investments in equity securities	12,107 			10,000 	
$	46,028 			$	49,870 	
 

Equity Method Investments

Wendy’s has a 50% share in the TimWen real estate joint venture and a 20% share in the Brazil JV, both of which are accounted for using the equity method of accounting, under which our results of operations include our share of the income (loss) of the investees in “Other operating income, net.”

A wholly-owned subsidiary of Wendy’s entered into the Brazil JV during the second quarter of 2015 for the operation of Wendy’s restaurants in Brazil.  Wendy’s, Starboard International Holdings B.V. and Infinity Holding E Participações Ltda. contributed $1, $2 and $2, respectively, each receiving proportionate equity interests of 20%, 40% and 40%, respectively.  The Company did not receive any distributions and our share of the Brazil JV’s net losses was $417 during 2020. The Brazil JV ceased operations in 2021 and no income or loss was recorded during 2022 and 2021. A wholly-owned subsidiary of Wendy’s has loans outstanding related to the Brazil JV totaling $16,975 and $17,125 as of January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022, respectively. The loans are denominated in U.S. Dollars, which is also the functional currency of the subsidiary; therefore, there is no exposure to changes in foreign currency rates. The loans bear interest at rates ranging from 3.25% to 6.5% per year. Of the total loans outstanding as of January 1, 2023, $12,775 was due primarily in the fourth quarter of 2020 and $4,200 is due primarily in 2024. As of January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022, the Company had reserves of $4,640 on the past due loans related to the Brazil JV. The Company is currently pursuing collection of certain of the past due amounts. See Note 7 for further information.

82
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
The carrying value of our investment in TimWen exceeded our interest in the underlying equity of the joint venture by $16,423 and $20,532 as of January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022, respectively, primarily due to purchase price adjustments from the 2008 merger of Triarc Companies, Inc. and Wendy’s International, Inc. (the “Wendy’s Merger”).

Presented below is activity related to our portion of TimWen and the Brazil JV included in our consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of operations as of and for the years ended January 1, 2023, January 2, 2022 and January 3, 2021.
Year Ended
2022		2021		2020
Balance at beginning of period	$	39,870 			$	44,574 			$	45,310 	
Equity in earnings for the period	12,267 			14,329 			8,389 	
Amortization of purchase price adjustments (a)	(2,845)			(3,126)			(2,293)	
9,422 			11,203 			6,096 	
Distributions received	(12,612)			(16,337)			(8,376)	
Foreign currency translation adjustment included in
“Other comprehensive income” and other
(2,759)			430 			1,544 	
Balance at end of period	$	33,921 			$	39,870 			$	44,574 	
 
_______________

(a)Purchase price adjustments that impacted the carrying value of the Company’s investment in TimWen are being amortized over the average original aggregate life of 21 years.

Other Investments in Equity Securities

During 2021, the Company made an investment in equity securities of $10,000. During the year ended January 1, 2023, the Company recognized a gain of $2,107 as a result of an observable price change for a similar investment of the same issuer.


(9) Properties
Year End
January 1, 2023		January 2, 2022
Land	$	371,347 			$	370,742 	
Buildings and improvements	510,685 			504,462 	
Leasehold improvements	422,330 			422,094 	
Office, restaurant and transportation equipment	314,223 			282,770 	
1,618,585 			1,580,068 	
Accumulated depreciation and amortization	(722,807)			(673,201)	
$	895,778 			$	906,867 	
 

Depreciation and amortization expense related to properties was $69,239, $68,298 and $77,656 during 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

83
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
(10) Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

Goodwill activity for 2022 and 2021 was as follows:
Wendy’s U.S.		Wendy’s
International		Global Real Estate & Development		Total
Balance at January 3, 2021:
Goodwill, gross	$	596,874 			$	41,024 			$	122,548 			$	760,446 	
Accumulated impairment losses (a)	— 			(9,397)			— 			(9,397)	
Goodwill, net	596,874 			31,627 			122,548 			751,049 	
Changes in goodwill:							
Restaurant acquisitions	23,442 			— 			— 			23,442 	
Restaurant dispositions (b)	547 			— 			— 			547 	
Currency translation adjustment and other	— 			240 			— 			240 	
Balance at January 2, 2022:
Goodwill, gross	620,863 			41,264 			122,548 			784,675 	
Accumulated impairment losses (a)	— 			(9,397)			— 			(9,397)	
Goodwill, net	620,863 			31,867 			122,548 			775,278 	
Changes in goodwill:							
Restaurant acquisitions (c)	(260)			— 			— 			(260)	
Restaurant dispositions	— 			— 			— 			— 	
Currency translation adjustment and other	— 			(1,930)			— 			(1,930)	
Balance at January 1, 2023:
Goodwill, gross	620,603 			39,334 			122,548 			782,485 	
Accumulated impairment losses (a)	— 			(9,397)			— 			(9,397)	
Goodwill, net	$	620,603 			$	29,937 			$	122,548 			$	773,088 	
 
_______________

(a)Accumulated impairment losses resulted from the full impairment of goodwill of the Wendy’s international franchise restaurants during the fourth quarter of 2013.

(b)Represents adjustments to the amount of goodwill allocated to the Company’s sale of 47 Company-operated restaurants in New York (including Manhattan) in the second quarter of 2021 upon final disposition of the restaurants. See Note 4 for further information.

(c)Includes an adjustment to the fair value of net assets acquired in connection with the acquisition of franchised restaurants during 2021. See Note 3 for further information.

84
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
The following is a summary of the components of other intangible assets and the related amortization expense:
Year End
January 1, 2023		January 2, 2022
Cost		Accumulated Amortization		Net		Cost		Accumulated Amortization		Net
Indefinite-lived:											
Trademarks	$	903,000 			$	— 			$	903,000 			$	903,000 			$	— 			$	903,000 	
Definite-lived:											
Franchise agreements	348,293 			(236,536)			111,757 			349,391 			(220,663)			128,728 	
Favorable leases	154,048 			(67,928)			86,120 			159,488 			(62,136)			97,352 	
Reacquired rights under franchise agreements
90,509 			(10,536)			79,973 			91,111 			(4,732)			86,379 	
Software	263,282 			(195,332)			67,950 			234,574 			(169,242)			65,332 	
$	1,759,132 			$	(510,332)			$	1,248,800 			$	1,737,564 			$	(456,773)			$	1,280,791 	
 
Aggregate amortization expense:	
Actual for fiscal year:	
2020	$	52,588 	
2021	55,236 	
2022	58,690 	
Estimate for fiscal year:	
2023	$	56,188 	
2024	49,999 	
2025	42,614 	
2026	36,777 	
2027	32,354 	
Thereafter	127,868 	
$	345,800 	
 

(11) Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities
Year End
January 1, 2023		January 2, 2022
Accrued compensation and related benefits	$	39,247 			$	63,835 	
Accrued taxes	30,159 			28,142 	
Other	46,604 			48,806 	
$	116,010 			$	140,783 	
 

85
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
(12) Long-Term Debt

Long-term debt consisted of the following:
Year End
January 1,
2023		January 2,
2022
Series 2022-1 Class A-2 Notes:			
4.236% Series 2022-1 Class A-2-I Notes, anticipated repayment date 2029
$	99,500 			$	— 	
4.535% Series 2022-1 Class A-2-II Notes, anticipated repayment date 2032
398,000 			— 	
Series 2021-1 Class A-2 Notes:			
2.370% Series 2021-1 Class A-2-I Notes, anticipated repayment date 2029
443,250 			447,750 	
2.775% Series 2021-1 Class A-2-II Notes, anticipated repayment date 2031
640,250 			646,750 	
Series 2019-1 Class A-2 Notes:			
3.783% Series 2019-1 Class A-2-I Notes, anticipated repayment date 2026
364,000 			368,000 	
4.080% Series 2019-1 Class A-2-II Notes, anticipated repayment date 2029
409,500 			414,000 	
Series 2018-1 Class A-2 Notes:			
3.884% Series 2018-1 Class A-2-II Notes, anticipated repayment date 2028
451,250 			456,000 	
7% debentures, due in 2025
86,369 			85,175 	
Unamortized debt issuance costs	(40,673)			(37,009)	
2,851,446 			2,380,666 	
Less amounts payable within one year	(29,250)			(24,250)	
Total long-term debt	$	2,822,196 			$	2,356,416 	
 

Aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt, excluding the effect of purchase accounting adjustments, as of January 1, 2023 were as follows:
Fiscal Year	
2023	$	29,250 	
2024	29,250 	
2025	119,250 	
2026	377,250 	
2027	25,250 	
Thereafter	2,315,500 	
$	2,895,750 	
 

Senior Notes

Wendy’s Funding, LLC (“Wendy’s Funding”), a limited-purpose, bankruptcy-remote, wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of The Wendy’s Company, is the master issuer (the “Master Issuer”) of outstanding senior secured notes under a securitized financing facility that was entered into in June 2015. As of January 1, 2023, the Master Issuer issued the following outstanding series of fixed rate senior secured notes: (i) 2022-1 Class A-2-I with an initial principal amount of $100,000; (ii) 2022-1 Class A-2-II with an initial principal amount of $400,000 (collectively, the 2022-1 Class A-2-I Notes and the 2022-1 Class A-2-II Notes are referred to herein as the “2022-1 Class A-2 Notes”); (iii) 2021-1 Class A-2-I with an initial principal amount of $450,000; (iv) 2021-1 Class A-2-II with an initial principal amount of $650,000; (v) 2019-1 Class A-2-I with an initial principal amount of $400,000; (vi) 2019-1 Class A-2-II with an initial principal amount of $450,000; and (vii) 2018-1 Class A-2-II with an initial principal amount of $475,000 (collectively, the notes described in (i) to (vii) are referred to herein as the “Class A-2 Notes”). In connection with the issuance of the 2021-1 Class A-2-I and 2021-1 Class A-2-II Notes, the Master Issuer also entered into a revolving financing facility of 2021-1 Variable Funding Senior Secured Notes, Class A-1 (the “2021-1 Class A-1 Notes”), which allows for the drawing of up to $300,000 on a revolving basis using various credit instruments, including a letter
86
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
of credit facility. No amounts were borrowed under the 2021-1 Class A-1 Notes during 2022. The Class A-2 Notes and the 2021-1 Class A-1 Notes are collectively referred to as the “Senior Notes.”

The Master Issuer’s issuance of the 2021-1 Class A-1 Notes in June 2021 replaced the Company’s previous $150,000 Series 2019-1 Variable Funding Senior Secured Notes, Class A-1 (the “2019-1 Class A-1 Notes”) and $100,000 Series 2020-1 Variable Funding Senior Secured Notes, Class A-1 (the “2020-1 Class A-1 Notes”). In March 2020, the Company drew down $120,000 under the Series 2019-1 Class A-1 Notes, which was fully repaid in July 2020. In June 2020, the Master Issuer issued the Series 2020-1 Class A-1 Notes.

The Senior Notes are secured by a security interest in substantially all of the assets of the Master Issuer and certain other limited-purpose, bankruptcy-remote, wholly-owned indirect subsidiaries of the Company that act as guarantors (collectively, the “Securitization Entities”), except for certain real estate assets and subject to certain limitations as set forth in the indenture governing the Senior Notes (the “Indenture”) and the related guarantee and collateral agreements.  The assets of the Securitization Entities include most of the domestic and certain of the foreign revenue-generating assets of the Company and its subsidiaries, which principally consist of franchise-related agreements, certain Company-operated restaurants, intellectual property and license agreements for the use of intellectual property.

Interest and principal payments on the Class A-2 Notes are payable on a quarterly basis. The requirement to make such quarterly principal payments on the Class A-2 Notes is subject to certain financial conditions set forth in the Indenture. The legal final maturity dates for the Class A-2 Notes range from 2048 through 2052. If the Master Issuer has not repaid or refinanced the Class A-2 Notes prior to their respective anticipated repayment dates, which range from 2026 through 2032, additional interest will accrue pursuant to the Indenture.

The 2021-1 Class A-1 Notes accrue interest at a variable interest rate based on (i) the prime rate, (ii) overnight federal funds rates, (iii) LIBOR for U.S. Dollars or (iv) with respect to advances made by conduit investors, the weighted average cost of, or related to, the issuance of commercial paper allocated to fund or maintain such advances, in each case plus any applicable margin and as specified in the respective purchase agreements for the 2021-1 Class A-1 Notes. There is a commitment fee on the unused portions of the 2021-1 Class A-1 Notes, which ranges from 0.40% to 0.75% based on utilization. As of January 1, 2023, $28,388 of letters of credit were outstanding against the 2021-1 Class A-1 Notes, which relate primarily to interest reserves required under the Indenture.

Covenants and Restrictions

The Senior Notes are subject to a series of covenants and restrictions customary for transactions of this type, including (i) that the Master Issuer maintains specified reserve accounts to be used to make required payments in respect of the Senior Notes, (ii) provisions relating to optional and mandatory prepayments and the related payment of specified amounts, including specified make-whole payments in the case of the Class A-2 Notes under certain circumstances, (iii) certain indemnification payments in the event, among other things, the assets pledged as collateral for the Senior Notes are in stated ways defective or ineffective and (iv) covenants relating to recordkeeping, access to information and similar matters. The Senior Notes are also subject to customary rapid amortization events provided for in the Indenture, including events tied to failure to maintain stated debt service coverage ratios, the sum of global gross sales for specified restaurants being below certain levels on certain measurement dates, certain manager termination events, an event of default, and the failure to repay or refinance the Class A-2 Notes on the applicable scheduled maturity date. The Senior Notes are also subject to certain customary events of default, including events relating to non-payment of required interest, principal, or other amounts due on or with respect to the Senior Notes, failure to comply with covenants within certain time frames, certain bankruptcy events, breaches of specified representations and warranties, failure of security interests to be effective, and certain judgments. In addition, the Indenture and the related management agreement contain various covenants that limit the Company and its subsidiaries’ ability to engage in specified types of transactions, subject to certain exceptions, including, for example, to (i) incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, (ii) sell certain assets, (iii) create or incur liens on certain assets to secure indebtedness or (iv) consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of their assets.

In accordance with the Indenture, certain cash accounts have been established with the Indenture trustee for the benefit of the trustee and the noteholders, and are restricted in their use. As of January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022, Wendy’s Funding had restricted cash of $34,850 and $27,188, respectively, which primarily represents cash collections and cash reserves held by the trustee to be used for payments of principal, interest and commitment fees required for the Class A-2 Notes.

87
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
Debt Financing

In April 2022, the Master Issuer completed a debt financing transaction under which the Company issued the 2022-1 Class A-2 Notes with an initial principal amount of $500,000. The legal final maturity date of the 2022-1 Class A-2 Notes is March 2052 and the anticipated repayment dates are in 2029 and 2032.

Refinancing Transactions

In June 2021, the Master Issuer completed a refinancing transaction under which the Master Issuer issued the Series 2021-1 Class A-2-I Notes and the Series 2021-1 Class A-2-II Notes. A portion of the net proceeds from the sale of the Series 2021-1 Class A-2 Notes were used to repay in full the Master Issuer’s outstanding Series 2015-1 Class A-2-III Notes and Series 2018-1 Class A-2-I Notes, including the payment of prepayment and transaction costs. As a result of the refinancing, the Company recorded a loss on early extinguishment of debt of $17,917 during 2021, which was comprised of a specified make-whole payment of $9,632 and the write-off of certain unamortized deferred financing costs of $8,285. As part of the June 2021 refinancing transaction, the Master Issuer also issued the 2021-1 Class A-1 Notes. The Series 2021-1 Class A-1 Notes replaced the Company’s $150,000 Series 2019-1 Class A-1 Notes and $100,000 Series 2020-1 Class A-1 Notes, which were canceled on the closing date, and the letters of credit outstanding against the Series 2019-1 Class A-1 Notes were transferred to the Series 2021-1 Class A-1 Notes.

Debt Issuance Costs

During 2022, 2021 and 2020, the Company incurred debt issuance costs of $10,232, $20,873 and $2,122 in connection with the issuance of the 2022-1 Class A-2 Notes, the June 2021 refinancing transaction and the issuance of the 2020-1 Class A-1 Notes, respectively. The debt issuance costs are being amortized to “Interest expense, net” through the anticipated repayment dates of the Class A-2 Notes utilizing the effective interest rate method. As of January 1, 2023, the effective interest rates, including the amortization of debt issuance costs, were 4.1%, 4.0%, 4.2%, 2.6%, 2.9%, 4.7% and 4.7% for the Series 2018-1 Class A-2-II Notes, Series 2019-1 Class A-2-I Notes, Series 2019-1 Class A-2-II Notes, Series 2021-1 Class A-2-I Notes, Series 2021-1 Class A-2-II Notes, Series 2022-1 Class A-2-I Notes and Series 2022-1 Class A-2-II Notes, respectively.

Other Long-Term Debt

Wendy’s 7% debentures are unsecured and were reduced to fair value in connection with the Wendy’s Merger based on their outstanding principal of $100,000 and an effective interest rate of 8.6%. The fair value adjustment is being accreted and the related charge included in “Interest expense, net” until the debentures mature. These debentures contain covenants that restrict the incurrence of indebtedness secured by liens and certain finance lease transactions. In December 2019, Wendy’s repurchased $10,000 in principal of its 7% debentures for $10,550, including a premium of $500 and transaction fees of $50. Subsequent to January 1, 2023, Wendy’s repurchased $25,000 in principal of its 7% debentures at par value. As a result, the Company recognized a loss on early extinguishment of debt of $1,009 during the first quarter of 2023.

A Canadian subsidiary of Wendy’s has a revolving credit facility of C$6,000, which bears interest at the Bank of Montreal Prime Rate. Borrowings under the facility are guaranteed by Wendy’s. In March 2020, the Company drew down C$5,500 under the revolving credit facility, which the Company fully repaid through repayments of C$3,000 in the fourth quarter of 2020 and C$2,500 in the first quarter of 2021. As of January 1, 2023, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under the Canadian revolving credit facility.

Wendy’s U.S. advertising fund has a revolving line of credit of $25,000, which was established to support the advertising fund operations and bears interest at LIBOR plus 2.15%. Borrowings under the line of credit are guaranteed by Wendy’s. During 2020, the Company borrowed and repaid $29,397 under the revolving line of credit. There were no borrowings or repayments under the line of credit during 2022 or 2021. As of January 1, 2023, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under the advertising fund revolving line of credit.

Interest Expense

Interest expense on the Company’s long-term debt was $110,751, $98,356 and $106,116 during 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, which was recorded to “Interest expense, net.”

88
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
Pledged Assets

The following is a summary of the Company’s assets pledged as collateral for certain debt:
Year End
January 1,
2023
Cash and cash equivalents	$	43,439 	
Restricted cash and other assets	34,855 	
Accounts and notes receivable, net	44,246 	
Inventories	6,120 	
Properties	64,328 	
Other intangible assets	1,010,313 	
$	1,203,301 	
 

(13) Fair Value Measurements

Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Valuation techniques under the accounting guidance related to fair value measurements are based on observable and unobservable inputs. Observable inputs reflect readily obtainable data from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect our market assumptions. These inputs are classified into the following hierarchy:

•Level 1 Inputs - Quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.

•Level 2 Inputs - Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; and model-derived valuations whose inputs are observable or whose significant value drivers are observable.

•Level 3 Inputs - Pricing inputs are unobservable for the assets or liabilities and include situations where there is little, if any, market activity for the assets or liabilities. The inputs into the determination of fair value require significant management judgment or estimation.

89
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
Financial Instruments

The following table presents the carrying amounts and estimated fair values of the Company’s financial instruments:
Year End		
January 1, 2023		January 2, 2022		
Carrying
Amount		Fair
Value		Carrying
Amount		Fair
Value		Fair Value
Measurements
Financial assets									
Cash equivalents	$	560,682 			$	560,682 			$	— 			$	— 			Level 1
Other investments in equity securities (a)	12,107 			12,107 			10,000 			10,000 			Level 2
Financial liabilities (b)									
Series 2022-1 Class A-2-I Notes	99,500 			89,401 			— 			— 			Level 2
Series 2022-1 Class A-2-II Notes	398,000 			349,444 			— 			— 			Level 2
Series 2021-1 Class A-2-I Notes	443,250 			357,304 			447,750 			439,283 			Level 2
Series 2021-1 Class A-2-II Notes	640,250 			499,011 			646,750 			642,352 			Level 2
Series 2019-1 Class A-2-I Notes	364,000 			334,334 			368,000 			381,579 			Level 2
Series 2019-1 Class A-2-II Notes	409,500 			361,875 			414,000 			439,792 			Level 2
Series 2018-1 Class A-2-II Notes	451,250 			405,809 			456,000 			473,693 			Level 2
7% debentures, due in 2025
86,369 			92,367 			85,175 			101,142 			Level 2
 
_______________

(a)The fair value of our other investments in equity securities is based on our review of information provided by the investment manager, which is based on observable price changes in orderly transactions for a similar investment of the same issuer.

(b)The fair values were based on quoted market prices in markets that are not considered active markets.

The carrying amounts of cash, accounts payable and accrued expenses approximate fair value due to the short-term nature of those items. The carrying amounts of accounts and notes receivable, net (both current and non-current) approximate fair value due to the effect of the related allowance for doubtful accounts. Our cash equivalents are the only financial assets measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis.

Non-Recurring Fair Value Measurements

Assets and liabilities remeasured to fair value on a non-recurring basis resulted in impairment that we have recorded to “Impairment of long-lived assets” in our consolidated statements of operations.

Total impairment losses may reflect the impact of remeasuring long-lived assets held and used (including land, buildings, leasehold improvements, favorable lease assets and ROU assets) to fair value as a result of (1) the deterioration in operating performance of certain Company-operated restaurants and (2) the Company’s decision to lease and/or sublease the land and/or buildings to franchisees in connection with the sale or anticipated sale of restaurants, including any subsequent lease modifications. The fair values of long-lived assets held and used presented in the tables below represent the remaining carrying value and were estimated based on either discounted cash flows of future anticipated lease and sublease income or discounted cash flows of future anticipated Company-operated restaurant performance.

90
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
Total impairment losses may also include the impact of remeasuring long-lived assets held for sale. The fair values of long-lived assets held for sale presented in the tables below represent the remaining carrying value and were estimated based on current market values. See Note 17 for further information on impairment of our long-lived assets.
Fair Value Measurements		
2022 Total Losses
January 1,
2023		Level 1		Level 2		Level 3	
Held and used	$	4,590 			$	— 			$	— 			$	4,590 			$	5,727 	
Held for sale	1,314 			— 			— 			1,314 			693 	
Total	$	5,904 			$	— 			$	— 			$	5,904 			$	6,420 	
 
Fair Value Measurements		
2021 Total Losses
January 2,
2022		Level 1		Level 2		Level 3	
Held and used	$	1,618 			$	— 			$	— 			$	1,618 			$	2,051 	
Held for sale	371 			— 			— 			371 			200 	
Total	$	1,989 			$	— 			$	— 			$	1,989 			$	2,251 	
 

(14) Income Taxes

Income before income taxes is set forth below:
Year Ended
2022		2021		2020
Domestic	$	231,862 			$	228,756 			$	149,046 	
Foreign (a)	11,643 			11,822 			3,749 	
$	243,505 			$	240,578 			$	152,795 	
 
_______________

(a)Excludes foreign income of domestic subsidiaries.

The (provision for) benefit from income taxes is set forth below:
Year Ended
2022		2021		2020
Current:					
U.S. federal	$	(43,141)			$	(38,416)			$	(16,176)	
State	(9,152)			(7,039)			(3,723)	
Foreign	(9,537)			(8,512)			(4,798)	
Current tax provision	(61,830)			(53,967)			(24,697)	
Deferred:					
U.S. federal	(3,868)			(52)			(6,707)	
State	(2,629)			15,993 			(3,185)	
Foreign	2,192 			(2,160)			(374)	
Deferred tax (provision) benefit	(4,305)			13,781 			(10,266)	
Income tax provision	$	(66,135)			$	(40,186)			$	(34,963)	
 

91
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
Deferred tax assets (liabilities) are set forth below:
Year End
January 1, 2023		January 2, 2022
Deferred tax assets:			
Operating and finance lease liabilities	$	355,653 			$	368,932 	
Net operating loss and credit carryforwards	58,030 			60,620 	
Deferred revenue	23,617 			23,636 	
Unfavorable leases	19,085 			19,060 	
Accrued compensation and related benefits	14,577 			18,487 	
Accrued expenses and reserves	7,012 			6,763 	
Other	8,275 			7,586 	
Valuation allowances	(35,680)			(38,277)	
Total deferred tax assets	450,569 			466,807 	
Deferred tax liabilities:			
Operating and finance lease assets	(326,646)			(341,681)	
Intangible assets	(285,688)			(290,088)	
Fixed assets	(66,830)			(63,936)	
Other	(41,826)			(38,812)	
Total deferred tax liabilities	(720,990)			(734,517)	
$	(270,421)			$	(267,710)	
 

The amounts and expiration dates of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards are as follows:
Amount		Expiration
Tax credit carryforwards:			
U.S. federal foreign tax credits	$	14,350 			2027-2032
State tax credits	423 			2023-2024
Foreign tax credits of non-U.S. subsidiaries	3,881 			Indefinite
Total	$	18,654 			
Net operating loss carryforwards (pre-tax):			
State and local net operating loss carryforwards	$	1,059,037 			2023-Indefinite
Foreign net operating loss carryforwards	13,880 			Indefinite
Total	$	1,072,917 			
 

The Company’s valuation allowances of $35,680 and $38,277 as of January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022, respectively, relate primarily to foreign and state tax credit and net operating loss carryforwards. Valuation allowances decreased $2,597 and $11,691 during 2022 and 2021, respectively, and increased $4,785 during 2020. The relative presence of Company-operated restaurants in various states impacts expected future state taxable income available to utilize state net operating loss carryforwards.

The current portion of refundable income taxes was $3,236 and $11,901 as of January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022, respectively, and is included in “Accounts and notes receivable, net.” There were no long-term refundable income taxes as of January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022.

92
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
The reconciliation of income tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% to reported income tax is set forth below:
Year Ended
2022		2021		2020
Income tax provision at the U.S. federal statutory rate	$	(51,136)			$	(50,521)			$	(32,087)	
State income tax provision, net of U.S. federal income tax effect	(11,616)			(6,256)			(4,664)	
Prior years’ tax matters	2,290 			1,820 			1,761 	
Excess federal tax benefits from share-based compensation	402 			7,160 			5,338 	
Foreign and U.S. tax effects of foreign operations	(3,744)			(5)			(397)	
Valuation allowances (a)	2,127 			11,807 			(4,593)	
Non-deductible goodwill (b)	— 			(947)			— 	
Tax credits	1,385 			1,028 			1,901 	
Non-deductible executive compensation	(3,154)			(3,810)			(1,973)	
Unrepatriated earnings	(294)			(282)			(283)	
Non-deductible expenses and other	(2,395)			(180)			34 	
$	(66,135)			$	(40,186)			$	(34,963)	
 
_______________

(a)2021 primarily relates to a $12,606 benefit resulting from a change in state tax law.

(b)Related to the sale of the New York Company-operated restaurants (including Manhattan). See Note 4 for further information.

The Company participates in the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) Compliance Assurance Process (“CAP”). As part of CAP, tax years are examined on a contemporaneous basis so that all or most issues are resolved prior to the filing of the tax return. As such, our tax returns for fiscal years 2009 through 2020 have been settled. The statute of limitations for the Company’s state tax returns vary, but generally the Company’s state income tax returns from its 2018 fiscal year and forward remain subject to examination. We believe that adequate provisions have been made for any liabilities, including interest and penalties that may result from the completion of these examinations.

Unrecognized Tax Benefits

As of January 1, 2023, the Company had unrecognized tax benefits of $17,404, which, if resolved favorably, would reduce income tax expense by $13,749. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits follows:
Year Ended
2022		2021		2020
Beginning balance	$	18,849 			$	20,973 			$	22,323 	
Additions:					
Tax positions of current year	178 			157 			322 	
Reductions:					
Tax positions of prior years	(662)			(2,015)			(1,183)	
Settlements	(8)			(46)			(119)	
Lapse of statute of limitations	(953)			(220)			(370)	
Ending balance	$	17,404 			$	18,849 			$	20,973 	
 

During 2023, we believe it is reasonably possible the Company will reduce unrecognized tax benefits by up to $582 due primarily to the lapse of statutes of limitations and expected settlements.

93
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
During 2022, 2021 and 2020, the Company recognized $(30), $138 and $159 of (income) expense for interest and $0, $37 and $81 of income for penalties, respectively, related to uncertain tax positions. The Company has $943 and $975 accrued for interest related to uncertain tax positions as of January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022, respectively.

(15) Stockholders’ Equity

Dividends

During 2022, 2021 and 2020, the Company paid dividends per share of $.50, $.43 and $.29, respectively.

Treasury Stock

There were 470,424 shares of common stock issued at the beginning and end of 2022, 2021 and 2020. Treasury stock activity for 2022, 2021 and 2020 was as follows:
Year Ended
2022		2021		2020
Number of shares at beginning of year	254,575 			246,156 			245,535 	
Repurchases of common stock	3,474 			11,487 			3,512 	
Common shares issued:					
Stock options, net	(353)			(2,657)			(2,358)	
Restricted stock, net	(264)			(337)			(465)	
Director fees	(22)			(17)			(15)	
Other	(87)			(57)			(53)	
Number of shares at end of year	257,323 			254,575 			246,156 	
 

Repurchases of Common Stock

In February 2022, our Board of Directors authorized a repurchase program for up to $100,000 of our common stock through February 28, 2023, when and if market conditions warranted and to the extent legally permissible (the “February 2022 Authorization”). On April 1, 2022, the Company’s Board of Directors approved an increase of $150,000 to the February 2022 Authorization, resulting in an aggregate authorization of $250,000 that was set to expire on February 28, 2023. During 2022, the Company repurchased 2,759 shares under the February 2022 Authorization with an aggregate purchase price of $51,911, excluding commissions of $39. As of January 1, 2023, the Company had $198,089 of availability remaining under the February 2022 Authorization. In January 2023, our Board of Directors authorized a repurchase program for up to $500,000 of our common stock through February 28, 2027, when and if market conditions warrant and to the extent legally permissible (the “January 2023 Authorization”). In connection with the January 2023 Authorization, the remaining portion of the February 2022 Authorization was canceled. Subsequent to January 1, 2023 through February 21, 2023, the Company repurchased 578 shares under the January 2023 Authorization with an aggregate purchase price of $12,910, excluding commissions of $8.

In February 2020, our Board of Directors authorized a repurchase program for up to $100,000 of our common stock through February 28, 2021, when and if market conditions warranted and to the extent legally permissible (the “February 2020 Authorization”). In July 2020, the Company’s Board of Directors approved an extension of the February 2020 Authorization by one year, through February 28, 2022. In addition, in May 2021, August 2021 and November 2021, the Board of Directors approved increases of $50,000, $70,000 and $80,000, respectively, to the February 2020 Authorization, resulting in an aggregate authorization of $300,000 that continued to expire on February 28, 2022. In November 2021, the Company entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement (the “2021 ASR Agreement”) with a third-party financial institution to repurchase common stock as part of the February 2020 Authorization. Under the 2021 ASR Agreement, the Company paid the financial institution an initial purchase price of $125,000 in cash and received an initial delivery of 4,910 shares of common stock, representing an estimated 85% of the total shares expected to be delivered under the 2021 ASR Agreement. In February 2022, the Company completed the 2021 ASR Agreement and received an additional 715 shares of common stock. The total number of shares of common stock ultimately purchased by the Company under the 2021 ASR Agreement was based on the average of the daily volume-weighted average prices of the common stock during the term of the 2021 ASR Agreement, less an
94
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
agreed upon discount. In total, 5,625 shares were delivered under the 2021 ASR Agreement at an average purchase price of $22.22 per share.

In addition to the shares repurchased in connection with the 2021 ASR Agreement, during 2021, the Company repurchased 6,577 shares with an aggregate purchase price of $142,715, excluding commissions of $93, under the February 2020 Authorization. After taking into consideration these repurchases, with the completion of the 2021 ASR Agreement in February 2022 described above, the Company completed the February 2020 Authorization.

During 2020, the Company repurchased 1,572 shares under the February 2020 Authorization with an aggregate purchase price of $32,285, of which $723 was accrued at January 3, 2021, and excluding commissions of $22.

In February 2019, our Board of Directors authorized a repurchase program for up to $225,000 of our common stock through March 1, 2020, when and if market conditions warranted and to the extent legally permissible (the “February 2019 Authorization”). In November 2019, the Company entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement (the “2019 ASR Agreement”) with a third-party financial institution to repurchase common stock as part of the February 2019 Authorization. Under the 2019 ASR Agreement, the Company paid the financial institution an initial purchase price of $100,000 in cash and received an initial delivery of 4,051 shares of common stock, representing an estimated 85% of the total shares expected to be delivered under the 2019 ASR Agreement. In February 2020, the Company completed the 2019 ASR Agreement and received an additional 628 shares of common stock. The total number of shares of common stock ultimately purchased by the Company under the 2019 ASR Agreement was based on the average of the daily volume-weighted average prices of the common stock during the term of the 2019 ASR Agreement, less an agreed upon discount. In total, 4,679 shares were delivered under the 2019 ASR Agreement at an average purchase price of $21.37 per share.

In addition to the shares repurchased in connection with the 2019 ASR Agreement, during 2020, the Company repurchased 1,312 shares with an aggregate purchase price of $28,770, excluding commissions of $18, under the February 2019 Authorization. After taking into consideration these repurchases, with the completion of the 2019 ASR Agreement in February 2020, the Company completed the February 2019 Authorization.

Preferred Stock

There were 100,000 shares authorized and no shares issued of preferred stock throughout 2022, 2021 and 2020.

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss

The following table provides a rollforward of accumulated other comprehensive loss, which is entirely comprised of foreign currency translation:
Year Ended
2022		2021		2020
Balance at beginning of period	$	(48,200)			$	(49,641)			$	(53,828)	
Foreign currency translation	(15,976)			1,441 			4,187 	
Balance at end of period	$	(64,176)			$	(48,200)			$	(49,641)	
 

(16) Share-Based Compensation

The Company has the ability to grant stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, other stock-based awards and performance compensation awards to current or prospective employees, directors, officers, consultants or advisors. During 2020, the Company’s Board of Directors and its stockholders approved the adoption of the 2020 Omnibus Award Plan (the “2020 Plan”) for the issuance of equity instruments as described above. The Company’s previous 2010 Omnibus Award Plan (as amended, the “2010 Plan”) expired in accordance with its terms in 2020. All equity grants in 2022 and 2021 were issued from the 2020 Plan. Equity grants in 2020 were issued from both the 2020 Plan and the 2010 Plan. The 2020 Plan is currently the only equity plan from which future equity awards may be granted, but outstanding awards granted under the 2010 Plan will continue to be governed by the terms of the 2010 Plan. As of January 1, 2023, there were approximately 18,168 shares of common stock available for future grants under the 2020 Plan. During the periods presented in
95
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
the consolidated financial statements, the Company settled all exercises of stock options and vesting of restricted shares, including performance shares, with treasury shares.

Stock Options

The Company’s current outstanding stock options have maximum contractual terms of 10 years and vest ratably over three years or cliff vest after three years. The exercise price of options granted is equal to the market price of the Company’s common stock on the date of grant. The fair value of stock options on the date of grant is calculated using the Black-Scholes Model. The aggregate intrinsic value of an option is the amount by which the fair value of the underlying stock exceeds its exercise price.

The following table summarizes stock option activity during 2022:
Number of Options		Weighted
Average
Exercise
Price		Weighted
Average
Remaining
Contractual
Life in Years		Aggregate
Intrinsic
Value
Outstanding at January 2, 2022
9,858 			$	18.44 					
Granted	1,562 			21.40 					
Exercised	(414)			13.82 					
Forfeited and/or expired	(116)			21.93 					
Outstanding at January 1, 2023
10,890 			$	19.00 			6.60		$	41,181 	
Vested or expected to vest at January 1, 2023
10,770 			$	18.97 			6.57		$	41,084 	
Exercisable at January 1, 2023
7,844 			$	17.73 			5.69		$	39,116 	
 

The total intrinsic value of options exercised during 2022, 2021 and 2020 was $2,979, $39,522 and $28,111, respectively. The weighted average grant date fair value of stock options granted during 2022, 2021 and 2020 was $6.33, $6.33 and $6.02, respectively.

The weighted average grant date fair value of stock options was determined using the following assumptions:
2022		2021		2020
Risk-free interest rate	3.00 	%		0.70 	%		0.22 	%
Expected option life in years	4.75		4.50		4.50
Expected volatility	37.82 	%		38.00 	%		38.02 	%
Expected dividend yield	2.34 	%		2.03 	%		1.72 	%
 

The risk-free interest rate represents the U.S. Treasury zero-coupon bond yield correlating to the expected life of the stock options granted. The expected option life represents the period of time that the stock options granted are expected to be outstanding based on historical exercise trends for similar grants. The expected volatility is based on the historical market price volatility of the Company over a period equivalent to the expected option life. The expected dividend yield represents the Company’s annualized average yield for regular quarterly dividends declared prior to the respective stock option grant dates.

The Black-Scholes Model has limitations on its effectiveness including that it was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options which have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable and that the model requires the use of highly subjective assumptions, such as expected stock price volatility. Employee stock option awards have characteristics significantly different from those of traded options and changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimates.

96
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
Restricted Shares

The Company grants RSAs and RSUs, which primarily cliff vest after one to three years, respectively. For the purposes of our disclosures, the term “Restricted Shares” applies to RSAs and RSUs collectively unless otherwise noted. The fair value of Restricted Shares granted is determined using the fair market value of the Company’s common stock on the date of grant, as set forth in the applicable plan document.

The following table summarizes activity of Restricted Shares during 2022:
Number of Restricted Shares		Weighted
Average
Grant Date Fair Value
Non-vested at January 2, 2022
1,094 			$	20.09 	
Granted	429 			20.34 	
Vested	(279)			20.38 	
Forfeited	(58)			21.65 	
Non-vested at January 1, 2023
1,186 			$	20.03 	
 

The total fair value of Restricted Shares that vested in 2022, 2021 and 2020 was $5,564, $7,048 and $8,634, respectively.

Performance Shares

The Company grants performance-based awards to certain officers and key employees. The vesting of these awards is contingent upon meeting one or more defined operational or financial goals (a performance condition) or common stock share prices (a market condition). The quantity of shares awarded ranges from 0% to 200% of “Target,” as defined in the award agreement as the midpoint number of shares, based on the level of achievement of the performance and market conditions.

The fair values of the performance condition awards granted in 2022, 2021 and 2020 were determined using the fair market value of the Company’s common stock on the date of grant, as set forth in the applicable plan document. Share-based compensation expense recorded for performance condition awards is reevaluated at each reporting period based on the probability of the achievement of the goal.

The fair value of market condition awards granted in 2022, 2021 and 2020 were estimated using the Monte Carlo simulation model. The Monte Carlo simulation model utilizes multiple input variables to estimate the probability that the market conditions will be achieved and is applied to the trading price of our common stock on the date of grant.

The input variables are noted in the table below:
2022		2021		2020
Risk-free interest rate	1.71 	%		0.20 	%		1.38 	%
Expected life in years	3.00		3.00		3.00
Expected volatility	52.33 	%		49.47 	%		23.26 	%
Expected dividend yield (a)	0.00 	%		0.00 	%		0.00 	%
 
_______________

(a)The Monte Carlo method assumes a reinvestment of dividends.

Share-based compensation expense is recorded ratably for market condition awards during the requisite service period and is not reversed, except for forfeitures, at the vesting date regardless of whether the market condition is met.

97
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
The following table summarizes activity of performance shares at Target during 2022:
Performance Condition Awards		Market Condition Awards
Shares		Weighted
Average
Grant Date Fair Value		Shares		Weighted
Average
Grant Date Fair Value
Non-vested at January 2, 2022
505 			$	20.48 			422 			$	24.52 	
Granted	207 			21.94 			148 			30.70 	
Dividend equivalent units issued (a)	14 			21.67 			11 			27.37 	
Vested	(75)			17.86 			(99)			21.37 	
Forfeited	(67)			17.86 			(20)			21.38 	
Non-vested at January 1, 2023
584 			$	21.67 			462 			$	27.38 	
 
_______________

(a)Dividend equivalent units are issued in lieu of cash dividends for non-vested performance shares. There is no weighted average fair value associated with dividend equivalent units.

The total fair value of performance condition awards that vested in 2022, 2021 and 2020 was $1,712, $1,784 and $3,447, respectively. The total fair value of market condition awards that vested in 2022, 2021 and 2020 was $2,253, $3,498 and $4,910, respectively.

Share-Based Compensation

Total share-based compensation and the related income tax benefit recognized in the Company’s consolidated statements of operations were as follows:
Year Ended
2022		2021		2020
Stock options	$	9,072 			$	9,256 			$	8,499 	
Restricted shares (a)	7,106 			6,677 			6,507 	
Performance shares:					
Performance condition awards	4,431 			2,861 			782 	
Market condition awards	3,929 			3,225 			2,521 	
Modifications, net	— 			— 			621 	
Share-based compensation	24,538 			22,019 			18,930 	
Less: Income tax benefit	(3,043)			(2,790)			(2,958)	
Share-based compensation, net of income tax benefit	$	21,495 			$	19,229 			$	15,972 	
 
_______________

(a)2021 and 2020 include $19 and $213, respectively, related to retention awards in connection with the Company’s G&A Realignment Plan, which is included in “Reorganization and realignment costs.” See Note 5 for further information.

As of January 1, 2023, there was $30,038 of total unrecognized share-based compensation, which will be recognized over a weighted average amortization period of 1.98 years.

98
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
(17) Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

The Company records impairment charges as a result of (1) the deterioration in operating performance of certain Company-operated restaurants, (2) the Company’s decision to lease and/or sublease properties to franchisees in connection with the sale or anticipated sale of Company-operated restaurants, including any subsequent lease modifications, and (3) closing Company-operated restaurants and classifying such surplus properties as held for sale. Impairment charges during 2020 were primarily due to the deterioration in operating performance of certain Company-operated restaurants as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.

The following is a summary of impairment losses recorded, which represent the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of the affected assets and are included in “Impairment of long-lived assets:”
Year Ended
2022		2021		2020
Company-operated restaurants	$	5,485 			$	1,862 			$	7,586 	
Restaurants leased or subleased to franchisees	242 			189 			— 	
Surplus properties	693 			200 			451 	
$	6,420 			$	2,251 			$	8,037 	
 

(18) Investment Income (Loss), Net
Year Ended
2022		2021		2020
Gain on other investments in equity securities	$	2,107 			$	— 			$	— 	
Gain on sale of investments, net	— 			63 			— 	
Impairment loss on other investments in equity securities	— 			— 			(471)	
Other, net	— 			(24)			246 	
$	2,107 			$	39 			$	(225)	
 

(19) Retirement Benefit Plans

401(k) Plan

The Company has a 401(k) defined contribution plan (the “401(k) Plan”) for employees who meet certain minimum requirements and elect to participate. The 401(k) Plan permits employees to contribute up to 75% of their compensation, subject to certain limitations, and provides for matching employee contributions up to 4% of compensation and for discretionary profit sharing contributions. In connection with the matching and profit sharing contributions, the Company recognized compensation expense of $5,929, $4,583 and $5,175 in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

Wendy’s Executive Plans

In conjunction with the Wendy’s Merger, amounts due under supplemental executive retirement plans (collectively, the “SERP”) were funded into a restricted account. As of January 1, 2011, participation in the SERP was frozen to new entrants and future contributions, and existing participants’ balances only earn annual interest. The corresponding SERP liabilities are included in “Accrued expenses and other current liabilities” and “Other liabilities” and, in the aggregate, were $281 and $294 as of January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022, respectively.

The Company has a non-qualified, unfunded deferred compensation plan for management and highly compensated employees, whereby participants may defer all or a portion of their base compensation and certain incentive awards on a pre-tax basis. The Company credits the amounts deferred with earnings based on the investment options selected by the participants. The Company may also make discretionary contributions to the plan. The total of participant deferrals was $1,435 and $1,455 at January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022, respectively, which are included in “Other liabilities.”

99
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
(20) Leases

Nature of Leases

The Company operates restaurants that are located on sites owned by us and sites leased by us from third parties. In addition, the Company owns sites and leases sites from third parties, which it leases and/or subleases to franchisees. At January 1, 2023, Wendy’s and its franchisees operated 7,095 Wendy’s restaurants. Of the 415 Company-operated Wendy’s restaurants, Wendy’s owned the land and building for 158 restaurants, owned the building and held long-term land leases for 143 restaurants and held leases covering the land and building for 114 restaurants. Wendy’s also owned 488 and leased 1,199 properties that were either leased or subleased principally to franchisees. The Company also leases restaurant, office and transportation equipment.

Company as Lessee

The components of lease cost for 2022, 2021 and 2020 are as follows:
Year Ended
2022		2021		2020
Finance lease cost:					
Amortization of finance lease assets	$	15,440 			$	13,992 			$	13,395 	
Interest on finance lease liabilities	42,918 			41,419 			40,682 	
58,358 			55,411 			54,077 	
Operating lease cost	86,050 			89,283 			91,475 	
Variable lease cost (a)	64,473 			63,853 			59,076 	
Short-term lease cost	5,439 			5,102 			4,641 	
Total operating lease cost (b)	155,962 			158,238 			155,192 	
Total lease cost	$	214,320 			$	213,649 			$	209,269 	
 
_______________

(a)Includes expenses for executory costs of $38,749, $39,646, and $38,652 for 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, for which the Company is reimbursed by sublessees.

(b)Includes $123,924, $132,158 and $125,553 for 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, recorded to “Franchise rental expense” for leased properties that are subsequently leased to franchisees. Also includes $29,648, $23,558 and $26,866 for 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, recorded to “Cost of sales” for leases for Company-operated restaurants.

The following table includes supplemental cash flow and non-cash information related to leases:
Year Ended
2022		2021		2020
Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities:					
Operating cash flows from finance leases	$	42,979 			$	42,277 			$	39,349 	
Operating cash flows from operating leases	88,372 			91,930 			85,689 	
Financing cash flows from finance leases	17,312 			13,640 			8,383 	
Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for lease obligations:					
Finance lease liabilities	34,478 			82,032 			34,918 	
Operating lease liabilities	24,742 			58,770 			18,327 	
 
100
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)

The following table includes supplemental information related to leases:
Year End
January 1, 2023		January 2,
2022
Weighted-average remaining lease term (years):			
Finance leases	15.1		15.8
Operating leases	13.7		14.1
Weighted average discount rate:			
Finance leases	8.66 	%		8.91 	%
Operating leases	4.90 	%		4.94 	%
Supplemental balance sheet information:			
Finance lease assets, gross	$	310,686 			$	307,965 	
Accumulated amortization	(76,116)			(63,686)	
Finance lease assets	234,570 			244,279 	
Operating lease assets	754,498 			812,620 	
 

The following table illustrates the Company’s future minimum rental payments for non-cancelable leases as of January 1, 2023:
Finance
Leases		Operating
Leases
Fiscal Year	Company-Operated		Franchise
and Other		Company-Operated		Franchise
and Other
2023	$	6,590 			$	54,163 			$	21,948 			$	65,838 	
2024	6,683 			54,763 			21,891 			66,211 	
2025	6,883 			55,357 			21,666 			66,072 	
2026	7,028 			57,043 			22,113 			65,314 	
2027	7,072 			57,742 			22,047 			64,901 	
Thereafter	81,853 			603,101 			185,694 			537,504 	
Total minimum payments	$	116,109 			$	882,169 			$	295,359 			$	865,840 	
Less interest
(39,079)			(369,006)			(78,935)			(242,093)	
Present value of minimum lease payments (a) (b)	$	77,030 			$	513,163 			$	216,424 			$	623,747 	
 
_______________

(a)The present value of minimum finance lease payments of $18,316 and $571,877 are included in “Current portion of finance lease liabilities” and “Long-term finance lease liabilities,” respectively.

(b)The present value of minimum operating lease payments of $48,120 and $792,051 are included in “Current portion of operating lease liabilities” and “Long-term operating lease liabilities,” respectively.
101
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)

Company as Lessor

The components of lease income for 2022, 2021 and 2020 are as follows:
Year Ended
2022		2021		2020
Sales-type and direct-financing leases:					
Selling profit	$	2,981 			$	4,244 			$	1,995 	
Interest income (a)	31,298 			30,648 			29,067 	
Operating lease income	170,633 			173,442 			174,452 	
Variable lease income	63,832 			63,213 			58,196 	
Franchise rental income (b)	$	234,465 			$	236,655 			$	232,648 	
 
_______________

(a)Included in “Interest expense, net.”

(b)Includes sublease income of $175,053, $174,327 and $169,921 recognized during 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Sublease income includes lessees’ variable payments to the Company for executory costs of $38,733, $39,650 and $38,636 for 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

The following table illustrates the Company’s future minimum rental receipts for non-cancelable leases and subleases as of January 1, 2023:
Sales-Type and
Direct Financing Leases		Operating
Leases
Fiscal Year	Subleases		Owned Properties		Subleases		Owned Properties
2023	$	36,408 			$	2,512 			$	107,111 			$	53,609 	
2024	38,425 			2,523 			107,832 			54,743 	
2025	37,316 			2,640 			107,923 			55,334 	
2026	38,623 			2,810 			107,843 			57,089 	
2027	39,190 			2,726 			107,967 			56,698 	
Thereafter	428,631 			29,035 			889,728 			593,718 	
Total future minimum receipts	618,593 			42,246 			$	1,428,404 			$	871,191 	
Unearned interest income	(312,508)			(22,731)					
Net investment in sales-type and direct financing leases (a)	$	306,085 			$	19,515 					
 
_______________

(a)The present value of minimum sales-type and direct financing rental receipts of $8,263 and $317,337 are included in “Accounts and notes receivable, net” and “Net investment in sales-type and direct financing leases,” respectively. The present value of minimum sales-type and direct financing rental receipts includes a net investment in unguaranteed residual assets of $611.

102
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
Properties owned by the Company and leased to franchisees and other third parties under operating leases include:
Year End
January 1, 2023		January 2, 2022
Land	$	260,650 			$	258,513 	
Buildings and improvements	291,659 			288,782 	
Restaurant equipment	1,701 			1,701 	
554,010 			548,996 	
Accumulated depreciation and amortization	(187,269)			(173,243)	
$	366,741 			$	375,753 	
 

(21) Supplemental Cash Flow Information

The following table includes supplemental cash flow information for 2022, 2021 and 2020:
Year Ended
January 1,
2023		January 2,
2022		January 3,
2021
Long-term debt-related activities, net:					
Loss on early extinguishment of debt	$	— 			$	17,917 			$	— 	
Accretion of long-term debt	1,194 			1,177 			1,161 	
Amortization of deferred financing costs	6,568 			5,664 			5,562 	
$	7,762 			$	24,758 			$	6,723 	
Cash paid for:					
Interest	$	144,418 			$	133,284 			$	136,228 	
Income taxes, net of refunds	47,769 			54,779 			16,202 	
Non-cash investing and financing activities:					
Capital expenditures included in accounts payable	$	14,468 			$	6,158 			$	3,673 	
Finance leases	34,478 			82,032 			34,918 	
 

The following table includes a reconciliation of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash for 2022, 2021 and 2020:
January 1,
2023		January 2,
2022		January 3,
2021
Cash and cash equivalents	$	745,889 			$	249,438 			$	306,989 	
Restricted cash	35,203 			27,535 			33,973 	
Restricted cash, included in Advertising funds restricted assets	50,709 			89,993 			77,279 	
Total cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash	$	831,801 			$	366,966 			$	418,241 	
 

Franchise Development Fund

In August 2021, the Company announced the creation of a $100,000 strategic build to suit development fund to drive additional new restaurant growth. The Company expects the development fund to drive up to 80 new franchise restaurants through 2026. Capital expenditures related to the fund are included in “Franchise development fund” in the consolidated statements of cash flows.

103
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
(22) Guarantees and Other Commitments and Contingencies

Guarantees and Contingent Liabilities

Franchisee Image Activation Incentive Programs

To promote new restaurant development, Wendy’s has provided franchisees with certain incentive programs for qualifying new restaurants. In February 2023, Wendy’s announced a new restaurant development incentive program in the U.S. and Canada that provides for waivers of royalty, national advertising and technical assistance fees for up to the first three years of operation for qualifying new restaurants (“Pacesetter”). Wendy’s previously offered and will continue to offer a restaurant development incentive program that provides for reductions in royalty and national advertising fees for up to the first two years of operation for qualifying new restaurants (“Groundbreaker”). Wendy’s U.S. and Canadian franchisees may elect either the Pacesetter program or the Groundbreaker program when committing to new multi-unit development agreements or adding incremental commitments to existing development agreements. Wendy’s also provides franchisees with the option of an early 20-year or 25-year renewal of their franchise agreement upon completion of reimaging utilizing certain approved Image Activation reimage designs.

Lease Guarantees

Wendy’s has guaranteed the performance of certain leases and other obligations, primarily from former Company-operated restaurant locations now operated by franchisees, amounting to $102,627 as of January 1, 2023. These leases extend through 2045. We have had no judgments against us as guarantor of these leases as of January 1, 2023. In the event of default by a franchise owner where Wendy’s is called upon to perform under its guarantee, Wendy’s has the ability to pursue repayment from the franchise owner. The liability recorded for our probable exposure associated with these lease guarantees was not material as of January 1, 2023.

Insurance

Wendy’s is self-insured for most workers’ compensation losses and purchases insurance for general liability and automotive liability losses, all subject to a $500 per occurrence retention or deductible limit. Wendy’s determines its liability for claims incurred but not reported for the insurance liabilities on an actuarial basis. As of January 1, 2023, the Company had $17,885 recorded for these insurance liabilities. Wendy’s is self-insured for health care claims for eligible participating employees subject to certain deductibles and limitations and determines its liability for health care claims incurred but not reported based on historical claims runoff data. As of January 1, 2023, the Company had $2,873 recorded for these health care insurance liabilities.

Letters of Credit

As of January 1, 2023, the Company had outstanding letters of credit with various parties totaling $28,622. Substantially all of the outstanding letters of credit include amounts outstanding against the 2021-1 Class A-1 Notes. See Note 12 for further information. We do not expect any material loss to result from these letters of credit.

Purchase and Capital Commitments

Beverage Agreement

The Company has an agreement with a beverage vendor, which provides fountain beverage products and certain marketing support funding to the Company and its franchisees. This agreement requires minimum purchases of certain fountain beverages (“Fountain Beverages”) by the Company and its franchisees at agreed upon prices until the total contractual gallon volume usage is reached. This agreement also provides for an annual advance to be paid to the Company based on the vendor’s expectation of the Company’s annual Fountain Beverages usage, which is amortized over actual usage during the year. In January 2019, the Company amended its contract with the beverage vendor, which now expires at the later of reaching a minimum usage requirement or December 31, 2025. Beverage purchases made by the Company under this agreement during 2022, 2021 and 2020 were $10,545, $9,709 and $10,986, respectively. The Company estimates future annual purchases to be approximately $10,900 in 2023, $11,000 in 2024 and $11,200 in 2025 based on current pricing and the expected ratio of usage
104
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
at Company-operated restaurants to franchised restaurants. As of January 1, 2023, $2,707 is due to the beverage vendor and is included in “Accounts payable,” principally for annual estimated payments that exceeded usage under this agreement.

IT Services Agreement

In December 2019, the Company entered into an agreement to partner with a third-party global IT consultant on the Company’s new IT organization structure to leverage the consultant’s global capabilities, which the Company believes will enable a more seamless integration between its digital and corporate IT assets. Costs incurred by the Company under this agreement were $18,780, $20,053 and $16,961 during 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The Company’s unconditional purchase obligations under the agreement are approximately $14,700 in 2023, $13,800 in 2024 and $7,100 in 2025. As of January 1, 2023, $1,395 is due to the consultant and is included in “Accrued expenses and other current liabilities.”

Marketing Agreement

The Company has an agreement with two national broadcasters that grants the Company certain marketing and media rights. Costs incurred by the Company under this agreement were approximately $12,000 and $15,000 in 2022 and 2021, respectively, which are included in “Advertising funds expense.” No costs were incurred under this agreement in 2020. The Company’s unconditional purchase obligations under the agreement are approximately $15,900 in 2023, $13,400 in 2024 and $12,700 in 2025.

(23) Transactions with Related Parties

The following is a summary of transactions between the Company and its related parties:
Year Ended
2022		2021		2020
Transactions with QSCC:					
Wendy’s Co-op (a)	$	427 			$	279 			$	— 	
Rental receipts (b)	198 			217 			217 	
TimWen lease and management fee payments (c)	$	19,694 			$	18,687 			$	16,130 	
Yellow Cab royalty, advertising fund, lease and other income (d)	$	13,404 			$	9,869 			$	1,090 	
 
_______________

Transactions with QSCC

(a)Wendy’s has a purchasing co-op relationship structure (the “Wendy’s Co-op”) with its franchisees that establishes Quality Supply Chain Co-op, Inc. (“QSCC”). QSCC manages, for the Wendy’s system in the U.S. and Canada, contracts for the purchase and distribution of food, proprietary paper, operating supplies and equipment under national agreements with pricing based upon total system volume. QSCC’s supply chain management facilitates continuity of supply and provides consolidated purchasing efficiencies while monitoring and seeking to minimize possible obsolete inventory throughout the Wendy’s supply chain in the U.S. and Canada.

Wendy’s and its franchisees pay sourcing fees to third-party vendors on certain products sourced by QSCC. Such sourcing fees are remitted by these vendors to QSCC and are the primary means of funding QSCC’s operations. Should QSCC’s sourcing fees exceed its expected needs, QSCC’s board of directors may return some or all of the excess to its members in the form of a patronage dividend. Wendy’s recorded its share of patronage dividends of $427 and $279 in 2022 and 2021, respectively, which are included as a reduction of “Cost of sales.” There were no patronage dividends recorded during 2020.

(b)Pursuant to a lease agreement, Wendy’s leased 14,493 square feet of office space to QSCC for an annual base rent of $217. The lease was amended in June 2021 to increase both the leased square footage to 18,774 and the annual base rent to $250 beginning in 2023, subject to annual increases, and to extend the lease term through January 31, 2027. The Company received lease payments from QSCC of $198 during 2022 and $217 during each of 2021 and 2020, which has been recorded to “Franchise rental income.”
105
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)

TimWen Lease and Management Fee Payments

(c)A wholly-owned subsidiary of Wendy’s leases restaurant facilities from TimWen, which are then subleased to franchisees for the operation of Wendy’s/Tim Hortons combo units in Canada. Wendy’s paid TimWen $19,927, $18,906 and $16,339 under these lease agreements during 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, which has been recorded to “Franchise rental expense.” In addition, TimWen paid Wendy’s a management fee under the TimWen joint venture agreement of $233, $219 and $209 during 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, which has been included as a reduction to “General and administrative.”

Transactions with Yellow Cab

(d)Certain family members and affiliates of Mr. Nelson Peltz, our Chairman, and Mr. Peter May, our Senior Vice Chairman, as well as Mr. Matthew Peltz, our Vice Chairman, hold indirect, minority ownership interests in Yellow Cab Holdings, LLC (“Yellow Cab”) and operating companies managed by Yellow Cab, a Wendy’s franchisee, that as of January 1, 2023 owned and operated 84 Wendy’s restaurants (including 54 restaurants acquired from NPC during the first quarter of 2021 as described below). During 2022, 2021 and the fourth quarter of 2020, the Company recognized $13,404, $9,869 and $1,090, respectively, in royalty, advertising fund, lease and other income from Yellow Cab and related entities. As of January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022, $1,125 and $974, respectively, was due from Yellow Cab for such income, which is included in “Accounts and notes receivable, net” and “Advertising funds restricted assets.”

In November 2020, the Company submitted a consortium bid together with a group of pre-qualified franchisees (of which Yellow Cab was a member) to acquire the Wendy’s restaurants owned by NPC, formerly the Company’s largest franchisee, which filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy in July 2020. As part of the consortium bid, in November 2020, the Company received deposits from each of the pre-qualified franchisees (including Yellow Cab), which amounts were transferred to a third-party escrow account pending resolution of the bankruptcy sale process. On January 7, 2021, following a court-approved mediation process, Yellow Cab was selected as the purchaser for 54 of NPC’s Wendy’s restaurants. In March 2021, Yellow Cab closed on its acquisition of these restaurants and its deposit was applied against the purchase price for the restaurants. See Note 3 for further information.

(24) Legal and Environmental Matters

The Company is involved in litigation and claims incidental to our business. We provide accruals for such litigation and claims when we determine it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the loss is reasonably estimable. The Company believes it has adequate accruals for all of our legal and environmental matters. We cannot estimate the aggregate possible range of loss for our existing litigation and claims due to various reasons, including, but not limited to, many proceedings being in preliminary stages, with various motions either yet to be submitted or pending, discovery yet to occur, and significant factual matters unresolved. In addition, most cases seek an indeterminate amount of damages and many involve multiple parties. Predicting the outcomes of settlement discussions or judicial or arbitral decisions is thus inherently difficult and future developments could cause these actions or claims, individually or in aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows of a particular reporting period.

(25) Advertising Costs and Funds

We maintain U.S. and Canadian national advertising funds established to collect and administer funds contributed for use in advertising and promotional programs. Contributions to the Advertising Funds are required from both Company-operated and franchised restaurants and are based on a percentage of restaurant sales. In addition to the contributions to the Advertising Funds, Company-operated and franchised restaurants make additional contributions to other local and regional advertising programs.

106
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
Restricted assets and liabilities of the Advertising Funds at January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022 are as follows:
Year End
January 1, 2023		January 2, 2022
Cash and cash equivalents	$	50,709 			$	89,993 	
Accounts receivable, net	70,422 			65,497 	
Other assets	5,542 			4,328 	
Advertising funds restricted assets	$	126,673 			$	159,818 	
Accounts payable	$	115,339 			$	136,043 	
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities	16,968 			21,858 	
Advertising funds restricted liabilities	$	132,307 			$	157,901 	
 

Advertising expenses included in “Cost of sales” totaled $37,418, $31,617 and $29,671 in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

(26) Geographic Information

The table below presents revenues and properties information by geographic area:
U.S.		International		Total
2022					
Revenues	$	1,946,005 			$	149,500 			$	2,095,505 	
Properties	841,143 			54,635 			895,778 	
2021					
Revenues	$	1,771,997 			$	125,001 			$	1,896,998 	
Properties	856,841 			50,026 			906,867 	
2020					
Revenues	$	1,635,696 			$	98,129 			$	1,733,825 	
Properties	879,806 			36,083 			915,889 	
 

(27) Segment Information

The Company is comprised of the following segments: (1) Wendy’s U.S., (2) Wendy’s International and (3) Global Real Estate & Development. Wendy’s U.S. includes the operation and franchising of Wendy’s restaurants in the U.S. and derives its revenues from sales at Company-operated restaurants and royalties, fees and advertising fund collections from franchised restaurants. Wendy’s International includes the operation and franchising of Wendy’s restaurants in countries and territories other than the U.S. and derives its revenues from sales at Company-operated restaurants and royalties, fees and advertising fund collections from franchised restaurants. Global Real Estate & Development includes real estate activity for owned sites and sites leased from third parties, which are leased and/or subleased to franchisees, and also includes our share of the income of our TimWen real estate joint venture. In addition, Global Real Estate & Development earns fees from facilitating Franchise Flips and providing other development-related services to franchisees. The Company measures segment profit using segment adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”). Segment adjusted EBITDA excludes certain unallocated general and administrative expenses and other items that vary from period to period without correlation to the Company’s core operating performance. When the Company’s chief operating decision maker reviews balance sheet information, it is at a consolidated level. The accounting policies of the Company’s segments are the same as those described in Note 1.

107
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
Revenues by segment are as follows:
Year Ended
2022		2021		2020
Wendy’s U.S.	$	1,750,242 			$	1,567,496 			$	1,431,382 	
Wendy’s International	106,705 			86,369 			65,642 	
Global Real Estate & Development	238,558 			243,133 			236,801 	
Total revenues	$	2,095,505 			$	1,896,998 			$	1,733,825 	
 

The following table reconciles profit by segment to the Company’s consolidated income before income taxes:
Year Ended
2022		2021		2020
Wendy’s U.S. (a)	$	480,498 			$	450,117 			$	393,314 	
Wendy’s International (b)	30,432 			27,386 			20,119 	
Global Real Estate & Development	108,700 			106,113 			100,731 	
Total segment profit	619,630 			583,616 			514,164 	
Unallocated franchise support and other costs	(742)			(753)			— 	
Advertising funds (deficit) surplus	(8,325)			2,770 			2,904 	
Unallocated general and administrative (c)	(130,103)			(116,273)			(94,256)	
Depreciation and amortization (exclusive of amortization of cloud computing arrangements shown separately below)	(133,414)			(125,540)			(132,775)	
Amortization of cloud computing arrangements	(2,394)			— 			— 	
System optimization gains, net	6,779 			33,545 			3,148 	
Reorganization and realignment costs	(698)			(8,548)			(16,030)	
Impairment of long-lived assets	(6,420)			(2,251)			(8,037)	
Unallocated other operating income, net	9,001 			394 			190 	
Interest expense, net	(122,319)			(109,185)			(117,737)	
Loss on early extinguishment of debt	— 			(17,917)			— 	
Investment income (loss), net	2,107 			39 			(225)	
Other income, net	10,403 			681 			1,449 	
Income before income taxes	$	243,505 			$	240,578 			$	152,795 	
 
_______________

(a)Wendy’s U.S. includes advertising funds expense of $11,000, $25,000 and $14,600 for 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, related to the Company funding of incremental advertising.

(b)Wendy’s International includes advertising fund expense of $4,116 for 2022 related to the Company’s funding of incremental advertising. In addition, Wendy’s International includes other international-related advertising deficit of $1,099 for 2022.

(c)Includes corporate overhead costs, such as employee compensation and related benefits.

108
Table of Contents
THE WENDY’S COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)
Net income (loss) of our equity method investments for the Brazil JV and TimWen are included in segment profit for the Wendy’s International and Global Real Estate & Development segments, respectively. Net income (loss) of equity method investments by segment was as follows:
Year Ended
2022		2021		2020
Wendy’s International	$	— 			$	— 			$	(417)	
Global Real Estate & Development	9,422 			11,203 			6,513 	
Total net income of equity method investments	$	9,422 			$	11,203 			$	6,096 	
 
109

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.

Not applicable.

Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures.

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

The management of the Company, under the supervision and with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)), as of January 1, 2023. Based on such evaluations, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that as of January 1, 2023, the disclosure controls and procedures of the Company were effective at a reasonable assurance level in (1) recording, processing, summarizing and reporting, on a timely basis, information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act and (2) ensuring that information required to be disclosed by the Company in such reports is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

The management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act). The management of the Company, under the supervision and with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, carried out an assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting for the Company as of January 1, 2023. The assessment was performed using the criteria for effective internal control reflected in the Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).

Based on the assessment of the system of internal control for the Company, the management of the Company believes that as of January 1, 2023, internal control over financial reporting of the Company was effective.

Our independent registered public accounting firm, Deloitte & Touche LLP, has issued an attestation report dated March 1, 2023 on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

There were no changes in the internal control over financial reporting of the Company during the fourth quarter of 2022 that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, its internal control over financial reporting.

Inherent Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls

There are inherent limitations in the effectiveness of any control system, including the potential for human error and the possible circumvention or overriding of controls and procedures. Additionally, judgments in decision-making can be faulty and breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. An effective control system can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control objectives of the system are adequately met. Accordingly, the management of the Company, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that the control system can prevent or detect all error or fraud. Finally, projections of any evaluation or assessment of effectiveness of a control system to future periods are subject to the risks that, over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in an entity’s operating environment or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures.

110

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of The Wendy’s Company

Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of The Wendy’s Company and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of January 1, 2023, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of January 1, 2023, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by COSO.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended January 1, 2023, of the Company and our report dated March 1, 2023, expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements.

Basis for Opinion

The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.


/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
Columbus, Ohio
March 1, 2023

111

Item 9B. Other Information.

On February 28, 2023, the Company and Kevin Vasconi, the Company’s Chief Information Officer, entered into an amendment (the “Amendment”) to Mr. Vasconi’s employment letter to provide that if Mr. Vasconi resigns before January 31, 2026 due to being required to report directly to an individual other than the current President and Chief Executive Officer by reason of either (i) the Company terminating the employment of the current President and Chief Executive Officer without “Cause” (as defined in an agreement between the Company and the current President and Chief Executive Officer), or (ii) the current President and Chief Executive Officer’s separation from the Company within 12 months following a “Change in Control” (as defined in the Company’s Executive Severance Pay Policy), such resignation will be treated for purposes of the Company’s Executive Severance Pay Policy as a termination by the Company “without Cause.” This summary of the Amendment is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by the actual terms of the Amendment, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.46 and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections.

Not applicable.

PART III

Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14.

The information required by Items 10 (Directors, Executive Officer and Corporate Governance), 11 (Executive Compensation), 12 (Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters), 13 (Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence) and 14 (Principal Accountant Fees and Services) will be furnished on or prior to May 1, 2023 (and is hereby incorporated by reference) by an amendment hereto or pursuant to a definitive proxy statement involving the election of directors pursuant to Regulation 14A that will contain such information. Notwithstanding the foregoing, information appearing in the sections “Compensation Committee Report” and “Audit Committee Report” shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K.

PART IV

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.

(a)    1.    Financial Statements:

    See Index to Financial Statements (Item 8).

2.Financial Statement Schedules:

All schedules have been omitted since they are either not applicable or the information is contained elsewhere in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

112

3.Exhibits:

Exhibits that are incorporated by reference to documents filed previously by the Company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under File No. 001-02207, or File No. 001-08116 for documents filed by Wendy’s International, Inc. We will furnish copies of any exhibit listed on the Exhibit Index upon written request to the Secretary of The Wendy’s Company at One Dave Thomas Boulevard, Dublin, Ohio 43017 for a reasonable fee to cover our expenses in furnishing such exhibits.
EXHIBIT NO.	DESCRIPTION
 	 
2.1	
Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of April 23, 2008, by and among Triarc Companies, Inc., Green Merger Sub, Inc. and Wendy’s International, Inc., incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to Triarc’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 29, 2008 (SEC file no. 001-02207).
2.2	
Side Letter Agreement, dated August 14, 2008, by and among Triarc Companies, Inc., Green Merger Sub, Inc. and Wendy’s International, Inc., incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 2.3 to Triarc’s Registration Statement on Form S-4, Amendment No. 3, filed on August 15, 2008 (Reg. no. and SEC file no. 333-151336).
3.1	
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of The Wendy’s Company, as filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on May 26, 2016, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of The Wendy’s Company Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 27, 2016 (SEC file no. 001-02207).
3.2	
By-Laws of The Wendy’s Company (as amended and restated through November 4, 2021), incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of The Wendy’s Company Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 8, 2021 (SEC file no. 001-02207).
4.1	
Base Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2015, by and between Wendy’s Funding, LLC, as Master Issuer, and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee and Securities Intermediary, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of The Wendy’s Company Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 2, 2015 (SEC file no. 001-02207).
4.2	
Series 2018-1 Supplement to Base Indenture, dated as of January 17, 2018, by and between Wendy’s Funding, LLC, as Master Issuer of the Series 2018-1 fixed rate senior secured notes, Class A-2, and Series 2018-1 variable funding senior notes, Class A-1, and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee and Series 2018-1 Securities Intermediary, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of The Wendy’s Company Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 17, 2018 (SEC file no. 001-02207).
4.3	
Series 2019-1 Supplement to Base Indenture, dated as of June 26, 2019, by and between Wendy’s Funding, LLC, as Master Issuer of the Series 2019-1 fixed rate senior secured notes, Class A-2, and Series 2019-1 variable funding senior notes, Class A-1, and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee and Series 2019-1 Securities Intermediary, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of The Wendy’s Company Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 26, 2019 (SEC file no. 001-02207).
4.4	
Series 2021-1 Supplement to Base Indenture, dated as of June 22, 2021, by and between Wendy’s Funding, LLC, as Master Issuer of the Series 2021-1 fixed rate senior secured notes, Class A-2, and Series 2021-1 variable funding senior notes, Class A-1, and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee and Series 2021-1 Securities Intermediary, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of The Wendy’s Company Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 23, 2021 (SEC file no. 001-02207).
4.5	
Series 2022-1 Supplement to Amended and Restated Base Indenture, dated as of April 1, 2022, by and between Wendy’s Funding, LLC, as Master Issuer of the Series 2022-1 fixed rate senior secured notes, Class A-2 and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee and Series 2022-1 Securities Intermediary, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of The Wendy’s Company Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 4, 2022 (SEC file no. 001-02207).
4.6	
Amended and Restated Base Indenture, dated as of April 1, 2022, by and between Wendy’s Funding, LLC, as Master Issuer, and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee and Securities Intermediary, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of The Wendy’s Company Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 4, 2022 (SEC file no. 001-02207).
4.7	
Description of Securities of the Registrant, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.13 of The Wendy’s Company Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 2022 (SEC file no. 001-02207).
10.1	
Wendy’s/Arby’s Group, Inc. 2010 Omnibus Award Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Annex A of the Wendy’s/Arby’s Group, Inc. Definitive 2010 Proxy Statement (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.2	
First Amendment to Wendy’s/Arby’s Group, Inc. 2010 Omnibus Award Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to The Wendy’s Company Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 2, 2015 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.3	
Second Amendment to The Wendy’s Company 2010 Omnibus Award Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to The Wendy’s Company Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 2, 2015 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
 
113

EXHIBIT NO.	DESCRIPTION
10.4	
Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement under The Wendy’s Company 2010 Omnibus Award Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of The Wendy’s Company Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 1, 2017 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.5	
Form of Long-Term Performance Unit Award Agreement for 2020 under The Wendy’s Company 2010 Omnibus Award Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of The Wendy’s Company Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 29, 2020 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.6	
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under The Wendy’s Company 2010 Omnibus Award Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.9 of The Wendy’s Company Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2019 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.7	
The Wendy’s Company 2020 Omnibus Award Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of The Wendy’s Company Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 28, 2020 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.8	
Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement under The Wendy’s Company 2020 Omnibus Award Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of The Wendy’s Company Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 28, 2020 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.9	
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under The Wendy’s Company 2020 Omnibus Award Plan (Cliff Vesting), incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of The Wendy’s Company Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 28, 2020 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.10	
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under The Wendy’s 2020 Omnibus Award Plan (Ratable Vesting), incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of The Wendy’s Company Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 28, 2020 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.11	
Form of Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Award Agreement under The Wendy’s Company 2020 Omnibus Award Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of The Wendy’s Company Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 28, 2020 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.12	
Form of Long-Term Performance Unit Award Agreement for 2021 under The Wendy’s Company 2020 Omnibus Award Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of The Wendy’s Company Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 4, 2021 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.13	
Form of Long-Term Performance Unit Award Agreement for 2022 under The Wendy’s Company 2020 Omnibus Award Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of The Wendy’s Company Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 3, 2022 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.14	
Wendy’s International, LLC Executive Severance Pay Policy, effective as of December 14, 2015, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.41 to The Wendy’s Company Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2016 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.15	
Wendy’s International, LLC Deferred Compensation Plan, effective as of January 1, 2017, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.34 to The Wendy’s Company Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2017 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.16	
Wendy’s/Arby’s Group, Inc. 2009 Directors’ Deferred Compensation Plan, effective as of May 28, 2009, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Wendy’s/Arby’s Group’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 28, 2009 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.17	
Amendment No. 1 to the Wendy’s/Arby’s Group, Inc. 2009 Directors’ Deferred Compensation Plan, effective as of May 27, 2010, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Wendy’s/Arby’s Group’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 4, 2010 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.18	
Amendment No. 2 to the Wendy’s/Arby’s Group, Inc. 2009 Directors’ Deferred Compensation Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of The Wendy’s Company Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2013 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.19	
Amendment No. 3 to the Wendy’s/Arby’s Group, Inc. 2009 Directors’ Deferred Compensation Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to The Wendy’s Company Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 28, 2020 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.20	
2018-1 Class A-2 Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 6, 2017, by and among The Wendy’s Company, the subsidiaries of The Wendy’s Company party thereto and Guggenheim Securities, LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., each acting on behalf of itself and as the representatives of the initial purchasers, incorporated herein by reference by Exhibit 10.1 of The Wendy’s Company Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 6, 2017 (SEC file no. 001-02207).
10.21	
2019-1 Class A-2 Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 13, 2019, by and among The Wendy’s Company, the subsidiaries of The Wendy’s Company party thereto and Guggenheim Securities, LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., each acting on behalf of itself and as the representatives of the initial purchasers, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of The Wendy’s Company Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 13, 2019 (SEC file no. 001-02207).
 
114

EXHIBIT NO.	DESCRIPTION
10.22	
2021-1 Class A-2 Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 15, 2021, by and among The Wendy’s Company, the subsidiaries of The Wendy’s Company party thereto and Guggenheim Securities, LLC and Jefferies LLC, each acting on behalf of itself and as the representatives of the initial purchasers, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of The Wendy’s Company Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 16, 2021 (SEC file no. 001-02207).
10.23	
Class A-1 Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 22, 2021, by and among Wendy’s Funding, LLC, as Master Issuer, each of Quality Is Our Recipe, LLC, Wendy’s Properties, LLC and Wendy’s SPV Guarantor, LLC, as Guarantors, Wendy’s International, LLC, as Manager, the conduit investors party thereto, the financial institutions party thereto, certain funding agents, and Coöperatieve Rabobank, U.A., New York Branch, as L/C Provider, Swingline Lender and Administrative Agent, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of The Wendy’s Company Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 23, 2021 (SEC file no. 001-02207).
10.24	
2022-1 Class A-2 Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 23, 2022, by and among The Wendy’s Company, the subsidiaries of The Wendy’s Company party thereto and Barclays Capital Inc. and Jefferies LLC, each acting on behalf of itself and as a representative of the initial purchasers, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of The Wendy’s Company Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 24 , 2022 (SEC file no. 001-02207).
10.25	
Guarantee and Collateral Agreement, dated as of June 1, 2015, by and among Quality Is Our Recipe, LLC, Wendy’s Properties, LLC, Wendy’s SPV Guarantor, LLC, each as a Guarantor, in favor of Citibank, N.A., as Trustee, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to The Wendy’s Company Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 2, 2015 (SEC file no. 001-02207).
10.26	
Management Agreement, dated as of June 1, 2015, by and among Wendy’s Funding, LLC, Quality Is Our Recipe, LLC, Wendy’s Properties, LLC, Wendy’s SPV Guarantor, LLC, Wendy’s International, LLC, as Manager, and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to The Wendy’s Company Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 2, 2015 (SEC file no. 001-02207).
10.27	
Management Agreement Amendment, dated as of January 17, 2018, by and among Wendy’s Funding, LLC, as Master Issuer, certain subsidiaries of Wendy’s Funding, LLC party thereto, Wendy’s International, LLC, as Manager, and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of The Wendy’s Company Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 17, 2018 (SEC file no. 001-02207).
10.28	
Second Amendment to the Management Agreement, dated as of June  26, 2019, by and among Wendy’s Funding, LLC, as Master Issuer, certain subsidiaries of Wendy’s Funding, LLC party thereto, Wendy’s International, LLC, as Manager, and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of The Wendy’s Company Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 26, 2019 (SEC file no. 001-02207).
10.29	
Third Amendment to the Management Agreement, dated as of January 3, 2021, by and among Wendy’s Funding, LLC, as Master Issuer, certain subsidiaries of Wendy’s Funding, LLC party thereto, Wendy’s International, LLC, as Manager, and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.31 of The Wendy's Company Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2021 (SEC file no. 001-02207).
10.30	
Fourth Amendment to the Management Agreement, dated as of June 22, 2021, by and among Wendy’s Funding, LLC, as Master Issuer, certain subsidiaries of Wendy’s Funding, LLC party thereto, Wendy’s International, LLC, as Manager, and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of The Wendy’s Company Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 23, 2021 (SEC file no. 001-02207).
10.31	
Fifth Amendment to the Management Agreement, dated as of April 1, 2022, by and among Wendy’s Funding, LLC, as Master Issuer, certain subsidiaries of Wendy’s Funding, LLC party thereto, Wendy’s International, LLC, as Manager, and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of The Wendy’s Company Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 4, 2022 (SEC file no. 001-02207).
10.32	
Assignment of Rights Agreement between Wendy’s International, Inc. and Mr. R. David Thomas, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(c) of the Wendy’s International, Inc. Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000 (SEC file no. 001-08116).
10.33	
Form of Guaranty Agreement dated as of March 23, 1999 among National Propane Corporation, Triarc Companies, Inc. and Nelson Peltz and Peter W. May, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.30 to Triarc’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3, 1999 (SEC file no. 001-02207).
10.34	
Separation Agreement, dated as of April 30, 2007, between Triarc Companies, Inc. and Nelson Peltz, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Triarc’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 30, 2007 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.35	
Letter Agreement dated as of December 28, 2007, between Triarc Companies, Inc. and Nelson Peltz., incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Triarc’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 4, 2008 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.36	
Separation Agreement, dated as of April 30, 2007, between Triarc Companies, Inc. and Peter W. May, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Triarc’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 30, 2007 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
 
115

EXHIBIT NO.	DESCRIPTION
10.37	
Letter Agreement dated as of December 28, 2007, between Triarc Companies, Inc. and Peter W. May, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Triarc’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 4, 2008 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.38	
Registration Rights Agreement dated as of April 23, 1993, between DWG Corporation and DWG Acquisition Group, L.P., incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.36 to Wendy’s/Arby’s Group’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2008 (SEC file no. 001-02207).
10.39	
Agreement dated December 1, 2011 by and between The Wendy’s Company and Trian Partners, L.P., Trian Partners Master Fund, L.P., Trian Partners Parallel Fund I, L.P., Trian Partners GP, L.P., Trian Fund Management, L.P., the general partner of which is Trian Fund Management GP, LLC, Nelson Peltz, Peter W. May and Edward P. Garden, who, together with Nelson Peltz and Peter W. May, are the controlling members of Trian GP, Trian Partners Strategic Investment Fund, L.P. and Trian Partners Strategic Investment Fund-A, L.P., incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to The Wendy’s Company Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 2, 2011 (SEC file no. 001-02207).
10.40	
Employment Letter between The Wendy’s Company and Todd Penegor dated as of May 8, 2013, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.9 of The Wendy’s Company Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2013 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.41	
Employment Letter between The Wendy’s Company and Liliana Esposito dated as of May 8, 2014, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of The Wendy’s Company Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 29, 2014 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.42	
Employment Letter between The Wendy’s Company and Kurt Kane dated as of March 27, 2015, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.8 of The Wendy’s Company Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 28, 2015 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.43	
Employment Letter between The Wendy’s Company and Gunther Plosch dated as of April 7, 2016, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of The Wendy’s Company Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 3, 2016 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.44	
Employment Letter between The Wendy’s Company and E. J. Wunsch dated as of September 6, 2016, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of The Wendy’s Company Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 2, 2016 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.45	
Employment Letter between The Wendy’s Company and J. Kevin Vasconi dated as of September 28, 2020, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.45 of The Wendy's Company Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2021 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.46	
Amendment to Employment Letter between The Wendy’s Company and J. Kevin Vasconi dated as of February 28, 2023.* **
10.47	
Non-Compete and Confidentiality Agreement between The Wendy’s Company and Abigail Pringle dated as of October 27, 2020, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to The Wendy’s Company Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 27, 2020 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.48	
Non-Compete and Confidentiality Agreement between The Wendy’s Company and M. Coley O’Brien dated as of October 27, 2020, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to The Wendy’s Company Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 27, 2020 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.49	
Non-Compete and Confidentiality Agreement between The Wendy’s Company and Leigh Burnside dated as of October 27, 2020, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to The Wendy’s Company Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 27, 2020 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.50	
Form of Indemnification Agreement for officers and employees of Wendy’s International, Inc. and its subsidiaries, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10 of the Wendy’s International, Inc. Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 12, 2005 (SEC file no. 001-08116).**
10.51	
Form of First Amendment to Indemnification Agreement between Wendy’s International, Inc. and its directors and certain officers and employees, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(b) of the Wendy’s International, Inc. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 29, 2008 (SEC file no. 001-08116).**
10.52	
Form of Indemnification Agreement between Arby’s Restaurant Group, Inc. and certain directors, officers and employees thereof, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.40 to Triarc’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2007 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.53	
Form of Indemnification Agreement, between Wendy’s/Arby’s Group, Inc. and certain officers, directors, and employees thereof, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.47 to Wendy’s/Arby’s Group’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2008 (SEC file no. 001-02207).**
10.54	
Form of Indemnification Agreement of The Wendy’s Company, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of The Wendy’s Company and Wendy’s Restaurants, LLC Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 2, 2011 (SEC file nos. 001-02207 and 333-161613, respectively).**
 
116

EXHIBIT NO.	DESCRIPTION
21.1	
Subsidiaries of the Registrant.*
23.1	
Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP.*
31.1	
Certification of the Chief Executive Officer of The Wendy’s Company, pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.*
31.2	
Certification of the Chief Financial Officer of The Wendy’s Company, pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.*
32.1	
Certifications of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.*
101	
The following financial information from The Wendy’s Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 1, 2023 formatted in Inline eXtensible Business Reporting Language: (i) the Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Operations, (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity, (v) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and (vi) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
104	
The cover page from The Wendy’s Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 1, 2023, formatted in Inline XBRL and contained in Exhibit 101.
 
____________________
*	Filed herewith.
**	Identifies a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
Instruments defining the rights of holders of certain issues of long-term debt of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries have not been filed as exhibits to this Form 10-K because the authorized principal amount of any one of such issues does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the Company and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. The Company agrees to furnish a copy of each of such instruments to the Commission upon request.
 

Item 16. Form 10-K Summary.

None.

117

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 	
THE WENDY’S COMPANY
(Registrant)
March 1, 2023	
 
By: /s/ TODD A. PENEGOR                                                  
 	Todd A. Penegor
 	President and Chief Executive Officer
 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below on March 1, 2023 by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated.
Signature		Titles
/s/ TODD A. PENEGOR		President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
(Todd A. Penegor)		(Principal Executive Officer)
/s/ GUNTHER PLOSCH		Chief Financial Officer
(Gunther Plosch)		(Principal Financial Officer)
/s/ SUZANNE M. THUERK		Chief Accounting Officer
(Suzanne M. Thuerk)		(Principal Accounting Officer)
/s/ NELSON PELTZ		Chairman and Director
(Nelson Peltz)		
/s/ PETER W. MAY		Senior Vice Chairman and Director
(Peter W. May)		
/s/ MATTHEW H. PELTZ		Vice Chairman and Director
(Matthew H. Peltz)		
/s/ KRISTIN A. DOLAN		Director
(Kristin A. Dolan)		
/s/ KENNETH W. GILBERT		Director
(Kenneth W. Gilbert)		
/s/ RICHARD H. GOMEZ		Director
(Richard H. Gomez)		
/s/ JOSEPH A. LEVATO		Director
(Joseph A. Levato)		
/s/ MICHELLE J. MATHEWS-SPRADLIN		Director
(Michelle J. Mathews-Spradlin)		
/s/ PETER H. ROTHSCHILD		Director
(Peter H. Rothschild)		
/s/ ARTHUR B. WINKLEBLACK		Director
(Arthur B. Winkleblack)		
 
118
What do you wish to search?
\
Please enter a company name atleast
-clear
hello
Hello there
Please enter a company name atleast
how are you
Good, thanks!
Please enter a company name atleast
what companies do you support
what info do you have on thse companies
tell me everything abour restaurant brands int
Hello there
I understand, here is info on all information:

UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
  
 
Form 10-K
  
 
(Mark One)
☒	ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022
or
☐	TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
For the transition period from                      to                     
Commission file number: 001-36786
  
 
 RESTAURANT BRANDS INTERNATIONAL INC.
(Exact name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)
   
 
Canada		98-1202754
(State or Other Jurisdiction of
Incorporation or Organization)		(I.R.S. Employer
Identification No.)
130 King Street West, Suite 300		M5X 1E1
Toronto,	Ontario		
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)		(Zip Code)
 
(905) 339-6011
Registrant’s telephone number, including area code

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of each class		Trading Symbols		Name of each exchange on which registered
Common Shares, without par value		QSR		New York Stock Exchange
Toronto Stock Exchange
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
None
  
 
Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes  ☒    No  ☐
Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes  ☐    No  ☒
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes  ☒    No  ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files).    Yes  ☒     No  ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large accelerated filer	 	☒	  	Accelerated filer	 	☐
Non-accelerated filer	 	☐	  	Smaller reporting company	 	☐
Emerging growth company		☐
 
If an emerging growth company, indicate by checkmark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.  ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report. ☒ 
If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial statements. ☐
Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation received by any of the registrant's executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240.10D-1(b). ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).    Yes  ☐    No  ☒
The aggregate market value of the common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant on June 30, 2022, computed by reference to the closing price for such stock on the New York Stock Exchange on such date, was $15,203,744,609.
The number of shares outstanding of the registrant’s common shares as of February 14, 2023 was 307,947,651 shares.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
Portions of the registrant’s definitive proxy statement for the 2023 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, which is to be filed no later than 120 days after December 31, 2022, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K.
 


Table of Contents
RESTAURANT BRANDS INTERNATIONAL INC.
2022 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
  
 	 	Page
PART I
Item 1.	
Business
4
Item 1A.	
Risk Factors
12
Item 1B.	
Unresolved Staff Comments
23
Item 2.	
Properties
23
Item 3.	
Legal Proceedings
23
Item 4.	
Mine Safety Disclosure
23
PART II
Item 5.	
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
24
Item 6.	
Reserved
26
Item 7.	
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
27
Item 7A.	
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
45
Item 8.	
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
52
Item 9.	
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
99
Item 9A.	
Controls and Procedures
99
Item 9B.	
Other Information
99
Item 9C.	
Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections
100
PART III
Item 10.	
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
100
Item 11.	
Executive Compensation
100
Item 12.	
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
100
Item 13.	
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
100
Item 14.	
Principal Accounting Fees and Services
100
PART IV
Item 15.	
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
101
Item 16.	
Form 10-K Summary
108
 
Tim Hortons® and Timbits® are trademarks of Tim Hortons Canadian IP Holdings Corporation. Burger King® and BK® are trademarks of Burger King Company LLC. Popeyes®, Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen® and Popeyes Chicken & Biscuits® are trademarks of Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen, Inc. Firehouse Subs® is a trademark of FRG, LLC. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references to “we”, “us”, “our” and “Company” refer to Restaurant Brands International Inc. and its subsidiaries.

2
Table of Contents
Explanatory Note
We are the sole general partner of Restaurant Brands International Limited Partnership (“Partnership”), which is the indirect parent of The TDL Group Corp. (“Tim Hortons”), Burger King Company LLC (“Burger King”), Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen, Inc. (“Popeyes”) and FRG, LLC (“Firehouse Subs”). As a result of our controlling interest, we consolidate the financial results of Partnership and record a noncontrolling interest for the portion of Partnership we do not own in our consolidated financial statements. Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests on the consolidated statements of operations presents the portion of earnings or loss attributable to the economic interest in Partnership owned by the holders of the noncontrolling interests. As sole general partner, we manage all of Partnership’s operations and activities in accordance with the partnership agreement of Partnership (the “partnership agreement”). We have established a conflicts committee composed entirely of “independent directors” (as such term is defined in the partnership agreement) in order to consent to, approve or direct various enumerated actions on behalf of the Company (in its capacity as the general partner of Partnership) in accordance with the terms of the partnership agreement.
Pursuant to Rule 12g-3(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), we are a successor issuer to Burger King Worldwide, Inc. Our common shares trade on the New York Stock Exchange and the Toronto Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “QSR”. In addition, the Class B exchangeable limited partnership units of Partnership (the “Partnership exchangeable units”) are deemed to be registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act, and Partnership is subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. The Partnership exchangeable units trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “QSP”.
Each of the Company and Partnership is a reporting issuer in each of the provinces and territories of Canada and, as a result, is subject to Canadian continuous disclosure and other reporting obligations under applicable Canadian securities laws. This Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes the Company’s Annual Information Form for purposes of its Canadian continuous disclosure obligations under National Instrument 51-102 – Continuous Disclosure Obligations (“NI 51-102”). Pursuant to an application for exemptive relief made in accordance with National Policy 11-203 – Process for Exemptive Relief Applications in Multiple Jurisdictions, Partnership has received exemptive relief dated October 31, 2014 from the Canadian securities regulators. This exemptive relief exempts Partnership from the continuous disclosure requirements of NI 51-102, effectively allowing Partnership to satisfy its Canadian continuous disclosure obligations by relying on the Canadian continuous disclosure documents filed by the Company, for so long as certain conditions are satisfied. Among these conditions is a requirement that Partnership concurrently send to all holders of the Partnership exchangeable units all disclosure materials that the Company sends to its shareholders and a requirement that Partnership separately report all material changes in respect of Partnership that are not also material changes in respect of the Company.
Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in this section to “RBI”, the “Company”, “we”, “us” or “our” are to Restaurant Brands International Inc. and its subsidiaries, collectively and all references in this section to “Partnership” are to Restaurant Brands International Limited Partnership and its subsidiaries, collectively.
All references to “$” or “dollars” in this report are to the currency of the United States unless otherwise indicated. All references to “Canadian dollars” or “C$” are to the currency of Canada unless otherwise indicated.

3
Table of Contents
Part I
Item 1. Business
Company Overview
We are a Canadian corporation that serves as the indirect holding company for Tim Hortons, Burger King, Popeyes and Firehouse Subs and their consolidated subsidiaries. We are one of the world’s largest quick service restaurant (“QSR”) companies with over $35 billion in annual system-wide sales and approximately 30,000 restaurants in more than 100 countries as of December 31, 2022. Our Tim Hortons®, Burger King®, Popeyes® and Firehouse Subs® brands have similar franchise business models with complementary daypart mixes and product platforms. Our four iconic brands are managed independently while benefiting from global scale and sharing of best practices. As of December 31, 2022, approximately 100% of total restaurants for each of our brands was franchised and references to "our restaurants" or "system-wide restaurants" include franchised restaurants and those owned by us ("Company restaurants").
Our business generates revenues from the following sources: (i) sales, consisting primarily of supply chain sales, which represent sales of products, supplies and restaurant equipment to franchisees, as well as sales to retailers and sales at Company restaurants; (ii) franchise revenues, consisting primarily of royalties based on a percentage of sales reported by franchise restaurants and franchise fees paid by franchisees; (iii) property revenues from properties we lease or sublease to franchisees; and (iv) advertising revenues and other services, consisting primarily of advertising fund contributions based on a percentage of sales reported by franchise restaurants.
Our Tim Hortons® Brand
Founded in 1964, TH is one of the largest donut/coffee/tea restaurant chains in North America and the largest in Canada as measured by total number of restaurants. As of December 31, 2022, we owned or franchised a total of 5,600 TH restaurants. TH restaurants are quick service restaurants with a menu that includes premium blend coffee, tea, espresso-based hot and cold specialty drinks, fresh baked goods, including donuts, Timbits®, bagels, muffins, cookies and pastries, grilled paninis, classic sandwiches, wraps, soups and more.
Our Burger King® Brand
Founded in 1954, Burger King (“BK”) is the world’s second largest fast food hamburger restaurant chain as measured by total number of restaurants. As of December 31, 2022, we owned or franchised a total of 19,789 BK restaurants in more than 100 countries. BK restaurants are quick service restaurants that feature flame-grilled hamburgers, chicken and other specialty sandwiches, french fries, soft drinks and other food items.
Our Popeyes® Brand
Founded in 1972, Popeyes (“PLK”) is the world’s second largest quick service chicken concept as measured by total number of restaurants. As of December 31, 2022, we owned or franchised a total of 4,091 PLK restaurants. PLK restaurants are quick service restaurants that distinguish themselves with a unique “Louisiana” style menu featuring fried chicken, chicken tenders, fried shrimp and other seafood, red beans and rice and other regional items.
Our Firehouse Subs® Brand
Founded in 1994, Firehouse Subs (“FHS”) is a brand built on decades of culture rooted in public service and a leading player in the QSR sandwich category in North America. As of December 31, 2022, we owned or franchised a total of 1,242 FHS restaurants. FHS restaurants are quick service restaurants featuring hot and hearty subs piled high with quality meats and cheese as well as chopped salads, chili and soups, signature and other sides, soft drinks and local specialties.
Our Business Strategy
We believe that we have created a financially strong company built upon a foundation of four thriving, independent brands with significant global growth potential and the opportunity to be one of the most efficient franchised QSR operators in the world through our focus on the following strategies:
 
•accelerating net restaurant growth;
•enhancing guest service and experience at our restaurants through comprehensive training, improved restaurant operations, reimaged restaurants and appealing menu options;
•increasing restaurant sales and profitability which are critical to the success of our franchise partners and our ability to grow our brands around the world;
4
Table of Contents
•strengthening drive thru and delivery channels to provide guests convenient access to our product offerings;
•utilizing technological and digital initiatives, including loyalty programs, to interact with our guests and modernize the operations of our restaurants;
•efficiently managing costs and sharing best practices; and
•preserving the rich heritage of each of our brands by managing them and their respective franchisee relationships independently and continuing to play a prominent role in local communities.
Operating Segments
Our business consists of four operating segments, which are also our reportable segments: (1) TH; (2) BK; (3) PLK; and (4) FHS. Additional financial information about our reportable segments can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 18, “Segment Reporting and Geographic Information,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”
Restaurant Development
As part of our development approach for our brands in the U.S., we have granted limited development rights in specific areas to franchisees in connection with area development agreements. We expect to enter into similar arrangements in 2023 and beyond. In Canada, we have not granted exclusive or protected areas to BK or TH franchisees, with limited exceptions.
As part of our international growth strategy for our BK, TH and PLK brands, we have established master franchise and development agreements in a number of markets, and we expect to enter into similar arrangements for FHS. We have also created strategic master franchise joint ventures in which we received a meaningful minority equity stake in each joint venture. We will continue to evaluate opportunities to accelerate international development of all of our brands, including through the establishment of master franchises with exclusive development rights and joint ventures with new and existing franchisees.
Advertising and Promotions
In general, franchisees fund substantially all of the marketing programs for each of our brands by making contributions ranging from 2.0% to 5.0% of gross sales to advertising funds managed by us or by the franchisees. Advertising contributions are used to pay for expenses relating to marketing, advertising and promotion, including market research, production, advertising costs, sales promotions, social media campaigns, technology initiatives and other support functions for the respective brands. In 2021, we spent C$80 million to support TH Canada advertising expenses and in September 2022, we announced our intention to pay $120 million of BK US advertising expenses over approximately two years.
We manage the advertising funds for each of our brands in the U.S. and Canada. While we manage the advertising funds in select markets for BK and PLK, in most international markets, including the markets managed by master franchisees, franchisees make contributions into franchisee-managed advertising funds. As part of our global marketing strategy, we provide franchisees with advertising support and guidance in order to deliver a consistent global brand message.
Product Development
New product development is a key driver of the long-term success of our brands. We believe the development of new products can drive traffic by expanding our customer base, allowing restaurants to expand into new dayparts, and continuing to build brand leadership in food quality and taste. Based on guest feedback, we drive product innovation in order to satisfy the needs of our guests around the world. This strategy will continue to be a focus in 2023 and beyond.
Operations Support
Our operations strategy is designed to deliver best-in-class restaurant operations by our franchisees and to improve friendliness, cleanliness, speed of service and overall guest satisfaction. Each of our brands has uniform operating standards and specifications relating to product quality, cleanliness and maintenance of the premises. In addition, our restaurants are required to be operated in accordance with quality assurance and health standards that each brand has established, as well as standards set by applicable governmental laws and regulations, including applicable local, provincial and state laws regarding COVID-19 and applicable health authority guidelines. Each franchisee typically participates in initial and ongoing training programs to learn all aspects of operating a restaurant in accordance with each brand’s operating standards.
Manufacturing, Supply and Distribution
In general, we approve the manufacturers of the food, packaging, equipment and other products used in restaurants for each of our brands. We have a comprehensive supplier approval process, which requires all food and packaging products to pass our quality standards and the suppliers’ manufacturing process and facilities to pass on-site food safety inspections. Our franchisees are required to purchase substantially all food and other products from approved suppliers and distributors.
5
Table of Contents
TH products are sourced from a combination of third-party suppliers and our own manufacturing facilities. To protect our proprietary blends, we operate two coffee roasting facilities in Ancaster, Ontario and Rochester, New York, where we roast the majority of the coffee for our TH restaurants and blend the beans for our take home, packaged coffee. Our fondant and fills manufacturing facility in Oakville, Ontario produces, and is the primary supplier of, the ready-to-use glaze, fondants, fills and syrups which are used in a number of TH products in North America. As of December 31, 2022, we typically have only one or a few suppliers to service each category of products sold at our restaurants.
We sell most raw materials and supplies, including coffee, sugar, paper goods and other restaurant supplies, to TH restaurants in Canada and the U.S. We purchase those raw materials from multiple suppliers and generally have alternative sources of supply for each. While we have multiple suppliers for coffee from various coffee-producing regions, the available supply and price for high-quality coffee beans can fluctuate dramatically. Accordingly, we monitor world market conditions for green (unroasted) coffee and contract for future supply volumes to obtain expected requirements of high-quality coffee beans at acceptable prices.
Our TH business has significant supply chain operations, including procurement, warehousing and distribution, to supply paper, dry goods, frozen goods and refrigerated products to a substantial majority of our Canadian restaurants. We act as a distributor to TH restaurants in Canada through nine distribution centers located in Canada, of which five are company-owned. We own or lease a significant number of trucks and trailers that regularly deliver to most of our Canadian restaurants. In the U.S., we supply similar products to restaurants through third-party distributors.
All of the products used in our BK, PLK and FHS restaurants are sourced from third-party suppliers. In the U.S. and Canada, there is a purchasing cooperative for each of BK and PLK that negotiates the purchase terms for most equipment, food, beverages (other than branded soft drinks which we negotiate separately under long-term agreements) and other products used in BK and PLK restaurants. The purchasing agent is also authorized to purchase and manage distribution services on behalf of most of the BK and PLK restaurants in the U.S. and Canada. PLK also utilizes exclusive suppliers for certain of its proprietary products. As of December 31, 2022, four distributors serviced approximately 92% of BK restaurants in the U.S., five distributors serviced approximately 85% of PLK restaurants in the U.S. and five distributors serviced approximately 100% of the FHS restaurants in the U.S. Additionally, some suppliers pay us rebates based on items purchased by franchisees.
In 2000, Burger King entered into long-term exclusive contracts with The Coca-Cola Company and Dr Pepper/Snapple, Inc. to supply BK restaurants with their products and which obligate restaurants in the U.S. to purchase a specified number of gallons of soft drink syrup. These volume commitments are not subject to any time limit. As of December 31, 2022, we estimate that it will take approximately 5.1 years to complete the Coca-Cola purchase commitment and approximately 8.8 years to complete the Dr Pepper/Snapple, Inc. purchase commitment. If these agreements were terminated, we would be obligated to pay an aggregate amount equal to approximately $268 million as of December 31, 2022 based on an amount per gallon for each gallon of soft drink syrup remaining in the purchase commitments, interest and certain other costs. We have also entered into long-term beverage supply arrangements with certain major beverage vendors for the TH, PLK and FHS brands in the U.S. and Canada.
Franchise Agreements and Other Arrangements
General. We grant franchisees the right to operate restaurants using our trademarks, trade dress and other intellectual property, uniform operating procedures, consistent quality of products and services and standard procedures for inventory control and management. For each franchise restaurant, we generally enter into a franchise agreement covering a standard set of terms and conditions. Recurring fees consist of periodic royalty and advertising payments. Franchisees report gross sales on a monthly or weekly basis and pay royalties based on gross sales.
Franchise agreements are generally not assignable without our consent. In Canada and the U.S., our TH franchise agreements grant us the right to reacquire a restaurant under certain circumstances, and our BK, PLK and FHS franchise agreements generally provide us a right of first refusal if a franchisee proposes to sell a restaurant. Defaults (including non-payment of royalties or advertising contributions, or failure to operate in compliance with our standards) can lead to termination of the franchise agreement.
U.S. and Canada. TH franchisees in the U.S. and Canada operate under several types of license agreements, with a typical term for a standard restaurant of 10 years plus renewal period(s) of 10 years in the aggregate for Canada and a typical term of 20 years for the U.S. TH franchisees who lease land and/or buildings from us typically pay a royalty of 3.0% to 4.5% of weekly restaurant gross sales. Our license agreements contemplate a one-time franchise fee which must be paid in full before the restaurant opens for business and upon the grant of an additional term. Under a separate lease or sublease, TH franchisees typically pay monthly rent based on the greater of a fixed monthly payment and contingent rental payments based on a percentage (usually 8.5% to 10.0%) of monthly gross sales or flow through monthly rent based on the terms of an underlying lease. Where the franchisee owns the premises, leases it from a third party or enters into a flow through lease with TH, the royalty is typically increased. In addition, the royalty rates under license agreements entered into in connection with non-standard restaurants, including self-serve kiosks and strategic alliances with third parties, may vary from those described above and are negotiated on a case-by-case basis.
6
Table of Contents
The typical BK and PLK franchise agreement in the U.S. and Canada has a 20-year term and the typical FHS agreement has a 10-year term, all of which contemplate a one-time franchise fee plus an additional fee upon renewal. Subject to the incentive programs described below, most new BK franchise restaurants in the U.S. and Canada pay a royalty on gross sales of 4.5%, most PLK restaurants in the U.S. and Canada pay a royalty on gross sales of 5.0% and most FHS restaurants in the U.S and Canada pay a royalty on gross sales of 6.0%. BK franchise agreements typically provide for a 20-year renewal term, PLK franchise agreements typically provide for two 10-year renewal terms and FHS franchise agreements typically provide for four 5-year renewal terms. In addition, BK and PLK franchisees pay a technology fee on all digital sales through our proprietary technology and FHS franchisees pay an annual per restaurant information system fee.
In an effort to improve the image of our BK restaurants in the U.S., we offered U.S. franchisees matching funds with respect to certain restaurant upgrades and remodels. These franchisees can elect to pay an increased royalty rate in order to receive a higher level of matching funds. We plan to continue to offer remodel incentives to U.S. franchisees during 2023. These limited-term incentive programs are expected to negatively impact our cash flow in the early years while in effect but increase the royalty rate for a period following the remodel. However, we expect this impact to be partially mitigated as incentive programs granted in prior years that provided reductions to royalty and advertising rates expire. For PLK, we offer development incentive programs pursuant to which we encourage veterans, women or minorities to become PLK franchisees and develop and open new restaurants. For FHS, we offer limited-term royalty reductions in connection with commitments to develop additional restaurants in specified territories.
International. As part of the international growth strategy for each of our brands, we have entered into master franchise agreements or development agreements that grant franchisees exclusive or non-exclusive development rights and, in some cases, allow them to sub-franchise or require them to provide support services to other franchisees in their markets. In 2022, we entered into master franchise agreements for the PLK brand in Indonesia, New Zealand, Poland, the Czech Republic and Taiwan, for the BK brand in Poland, the Czech Republic and Romania, and for the TH brand in Pakistan, and development agreements for the PLK brand in Singapore, Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico, Kazakhstan and Honduras. The franchise fees, royalty rate and advertising contributions paid by master franchisees or developers vary from country to country, depending on the facts and circumstances of each market. We expect to continue implementing similar arrangements for our brands in 2023 and beyond.
Franchise Restaurant Leases. We leased or subleased 3,531 properties to TH franchisees, 1,364 properties to BK franchisees, and 83 properties to PLK franchisees as of December 31, 2022 pursuant to separate lease agreements with these franchisees. For properties that we lease from third-party landlords and sublease to franchisees, our leases generally provide for fixed rental payments and may provide for contingent rental payments based on a restaurant’s annual gross sales. Franchisees who lease land only or land and building from us do so on a “triple net” basis. Under these triple net leases, the franchisee is obligated to pay all costs and expenses, including all real property taxes and assessments, repairs and maintenance and insurance. In many cases, we will contribute toward the cost of remodels with the franchisees in connection with extensions of the underlying lease.
Intellectual Property
We own valuable intellectual property relating to our brands, including trademarks, service marks, patents, industrial designs, copyrights, trade secrets and other proprietary information, some of which are of material importance to our TH, BK, PLK and FHS businesses. The duration of trademarks and service marks varies by country, however, trademarks and service marks generally are valid and may be renewed as long as they are in use and/or properly registered. We have established the standards and specifications for most of the goods and services used in the development, improvement and operation of our restaurants. These proprietary standards, specifications and restaurant operating procedures are our trade secrets. Additionally, we own certain patents and industrial designs of varying duration relating to equipment and/or packaging used in BK and TH restaurants.
Information Systems and Digital Technology
Our corporate financial, human resources and similar systems are fully integrated and provide a solid foundation for our business. We began providing rPOS, a proprietary point-of-sale software solution, to a limited number of franchisees in BK and PLK restaurants in the U.S., Mexico and Germany, and we continue to enhance this product and work to expand its adoption. Alternatively, franchisees may utilize point of sale software provided by a set of approved third-party vendors. Depending on the region, these vendors may also provide labor scheduling, inventory, production management, cash control services, and other services. We have an architecture that enables us to build custom customer-facing applications and integrate them with our third-party providers, to support mobile ordering, web ordering, and kiosks. As of the end of 2022, we have deployed this architecture in the U.S., Canada, and several other jurisdictions, and we plan to deploy it to additional markets in the future.
We expanded our digital technologies and the use of our mobile apps continued to increase. We provide digital loyalty programs across all four brands in our home markets and offer our guests added convenience by offering third party and white label delivery at many of our home market restaurants. Further, we are modernizing the drive-thru experience with outdoor digital menu boards for TH, BK and PLK brands in their home markets. We plan to leverage our technology capabilities to continue to expand the choices for how customers order, pay and receive their food.
7
Table of Contents
Although many of our systems are provided through third parties, we have the ability to obtain data from most of our franchised restaurants and from Company restaurants, which allows us to assess how our new and existing products are performing around the world.  Additionally, we have been investing to upgrade our supply chain systems and improve efficiency. We expect to continue to invest in technology capabilities to support and drive our business.
Competition
Each of our brands competes in the U.S., Canada and internationally with many well-established food service companies on the basis of product choice, quality, affordability, service and location. With few barriers to entry to the restaurant industry, our competitors include a variety of independent local operators, in addition to well-capitalized regional, national and international restaurant chains and franchises, and new competitors may emerge at any time. We also compete for consumer dining dollars with national, regional and local (i) quick service restaurants that offer alternative menus, (ii) casual and “fast casual” restaurant chains (iii) convenience stores and grocery stores, and (iv) new concepts, such as virtual brands and dark kitchens. Furthermore, delivery aggregators and other food delivery services provide consumers with convenient access to a broad range of competing restaurant chains and food retailers, particularly in urban areas.
Government Regulations and Affairs
General. We and our franchisees are subject to various laws and regulations including (i) licensing and regulation relating to health, food preparation, sanitation and safety standards, sustainability, and, for our distribution business, traffic and transportation regulations; (ii) information security, privacy and consumer protection laws; and (iii) other laws regulating the design, accessibility and operation of facilities, such as the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, the Accessibility for Ontarians with Disabilities Act and similar Canadian federal and provincial legislation that can have a significant impact on our franchisees and our performance. These regulations include food safety regulations, including supervision by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and its international equivalents, which govern the manufacture, labeling, packaging and safety of food. In addition, we are or may become subject to legislation or regulation seeking to tax and/or regulate high-fat, high-calorie and high-sodium foods, particularly in Canada, the U.S., the United Kingdom and Spain. Certain countries, provinces, states and municipalities have approved menu labeling legislation that requires restaurant chains to provide caloric information on menu boards, and menu labeling legislation has also been adopted on the U.S. federal level as well as in Ontario.
U.S. and Canada. Our restaurants must comply with licensing requirements and regulations by a number of governmental authorities, which include zoning, health, safety, sanitation, building and fire agencies in the jurisdiction in which the restaurant is located. We and our franchisees are also subject to various employment laws, including laws governing union organizing, working conditions, work authorization requirements, health insurance, overtime and wages and efforts are currently underway to strengthen these laws in favor of the employee. In addition, we and our U.S. franchisees are subject to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.
We are subject to federal franchising laws adopted by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”) and state and provincial franchising laws. Much of the legislation and rules adopted have been aimed at providing detailed disclosure to a prospective franchisee, duties of good faith as between the franchisor and the franchisee, and/or periodic registration by the franchisor with applicable regulatory agencies. Additionally, some U.S. states have enacted or are considering enacting legislation that governs the termination or non-renewal of a franchise agreement and other aspects of the franchise relationship.
International. Internationally, we and our franchisees are subject to national and local laws and regulations that often are similar in nature to those affecting us and our franchisees in the U.S. and Canada. We and our franchisees are also subject to a variety of tariffs and regulations on imported commodities and equipment, and laws regulating foreign investment.
Environmental. Various laws concerning the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials and restaurant waste and the operation of restaurants in environmentally sensitive locations may impact aspects of our operations and the operations of our franchisees; however, we do not believe that compliance with applicable environmental regulations will have a material effect on our capital expenditures, financial condition, results of operations, or competitive position. Increased focus by U.S., Canadian and international governmental authorities on environmental matters is likely to lead to new governmental initiatives, particularly in the area of climate change. While we cannot predict the precise nature of these initiatives, we expect that they may impact our business both directly and indirectly. There is a possibility that government initiatives, or actual or perceived effect of changes in weather patterns, climate or water resources could have a direct impact on the operations of our brands in ways that we cannot predict at this time.

8
Table of Contents
Sustainability
We are committed to the simple principle of doing what’s right. Our “Restaurant Brands for Good” plan provides a framework for serving our guests the food and drinks they love while contributing to a sustainable future and having a positive social impact in the communities we serve. Our ongoing efforts will focus on three key pillars:
•Food - serving high quality and great tasting food every day with a focus on food safety, improving choice, nutrition, transparency, and ingredients;
•Planet - continuing to reduce our environmental footprint, with a focus on packaging and recycling, green buildings, and responsible sourcing; and
•People & Communities - supporting communities and enhancing livelihoods, with a focus on supporting communities, talent development, diversity and inclusion, ethics and human rights, and improving supplier livelihoods.
In September 2021, we announced targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 50% by 2030, as approved by the Science Based Targets initiative, as well as a commitment to achieving net-zero emissions by 2050 or sooner. While most of the impact is from scope 3 emissions that are not under our direct control, reaching these targets will require us to devote resources to support changes by suppliers and franchisees.
The sustainability section of our corporate website sets forth our initiatives with respect to these pillars and will be updated periodically but is not incorporated into this Annual Report.
Seasonal Operations
Our restaurant sales are typically higher in the spring and summer months when the weather is warmer and typically lowest during the winter months. Furthermore, adverse weather conditions can have material adverse effects on restaurant sales. The timing of holidays may also impact restaurant sales. Because our businesses are moderately seasonal, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for any other quarter or for the full fiscal year.
Human Capital
As of December 31, 2022, we had approximately 6,400 employees, including approximately 2,100 corporate employees in our restaurant support centers and serving our franchisees from the field, approximately 1,100 employees in our distribution centers and manufacturing facilities, and approximately 3,200 employees in Company restaurants. Our franchisees are independent business owners that separately employ more than 500,000 team members in their restaurants.
We strive to create a workplace environment where our employees love coming to work each day; a place that is committed to inclusion, respect, accountability and doing what is right. While our board regularly receives updates from our People team, the compensation committee has oversight of our compensation program and the audit committee has been tasked with oversight of workforce management risks. Our People team is organized into four pillars that focus on attracting, retaining, developing and rewarding top talent.
The cycle starts with attracting talent from campus and professional sources, leveraging technology to identify and assess candidates who best fit our roles. As part of our hiring process, we have committed that at least half of all final-round candidates interviewing for roles with our four RBI restaurant support centers will be from groups that are demonstrably diverse, including gender, race and sexual orientation, based on the composition and requirements of the applicable jurisdiction. Since our commitment, we have meaningfully exceeded that target, leading to an increase in diverse hires. In 2022, RBI hired approximately 670 new corporate employees, 5,800 new restaurant employees, and 430 new distribution and manufacturing employees. Each population segment has a dedicated onboarding program designed to get employees up to speed quickly, and foster a smooth transition into the workplace.
The retention efforts focus on work environment, employee engagement and our diversity and inclusion initiatives. We regularly conduct anonymous surveys to seek feedback from our restaurant support center employees on a variety of topics, including our sustainability and diversity initiatives, flexible work policies, the support they receive from their managers, and what types of learning and development opportunities they would like to have offered. Our executive Steering Committee monitors progress across key indicators such as representation, engagement, and retention to guide strategies for promoting diversity and inclusion. To ensure that the work of the Steering Committee is fully integrated, we have dedicated team members within the people and legal teams to implement initiatives in this space. These initiatives include company-wide implicit bias training, internal events featuring eminent speakers, sponsorship and mentorship opportunities for identity-based groups. We also leverage designated subject matter experts across each of our brands to ensure accountability and consistent execution of priorities company-wide with regards to marketing, suppliers, franchisees, and community engagement.
9
Table of Contents
Developing talent includes evaluation, training, career planning and leadership development. We have a rigorous talent assessment process for restaurant support center employees built on specific competencies that we assess at both the employee and job level. This data allows us to more easily identify potential successors and illuminate potential opportunities for our employees in a more objective and unbiased way. Additionally, to help our employees and franchisee’s team members succeed in their roles, we emphasize continuous training and development opportunities. These include, but are not limited to, safety and security protocols, updates on new products and service offerings and deployment of technologies. In 2022, we conducted management and leadership training, including problem solving, feedback sessions, data analysis and spot learning opportunities to address specific business needs. We also brought back our brand service days, which allow corporate employees to work in our restaurants in a structured way that enables a better link between the corporate strategies we make and the operational deployment of them at the restaurant level. We launched a formal mentoring program in 2022, connecting employees from our restaurant support centers around the world to facilitate career growth and development opportunities.
Our approach to rewarding talent is through a combination of compensation, recognition, wellness and benefits. We are committed to providing market-competitive pay and benefits, affirming our pay for performance philosophy while balancing retention risk. Restaurant support center and distribution employees are eligible for performance-based cash incentive programs. Each incentive plan reinforces and rewards individuals for achievement of specific business goals. All employees are also able to access telemedicine with no copay, as well as a 24/7 Employee Assistance Program. For corporate office and field-based employees, we offer a leading parental leave policy.
Underpinning all of these initiatives is a strong reliance on data. We leverage our people analytics team and human capital management system to assess our achievements in each of our four pillars to identify areas for improvement. A team of experienced People Business Partners work closely with their client groups to provide counsel on people issues and help roll out people initiatives directly to employees.
While much of the work mentioned above relates to our corporate workforce, we also have adopted employee guidelines and policies applicable to our restaurant employees and encourage our franchisees to adopt similar guidelines and policies.
Philanthropic Foundations
RBI is committed to strengthening and giving back to the communities we serve through our brand foundations and by supporting local programs and issues that are close to our guests’ hearts. To date, our philanthropic foundations include:
The Burger King Foundation: Established in 2005, the Burger King Foundation creates brighter futures by empowering individuals and feeding potential through education and emergency relief. As of December 31, 2022, the Burger King Foundation is active in 42 countries around the world. Since its inception, over 250,000 children and families have been supported through educational programs and employee emergency relief grants, with the Burger King Scholars Program awarding over $55 million in scholarship funds alone.
Tim Hortons Foundation Camps and Smile Cookie Initiative: Created in 1974, Tim Hortons Foundation Camps are helping youth aged 12-16 from disadvantaged circumstances discover the strengths within themselves. Through December 31, 2022, the Tim Hortons Foundation’s annual Camp Day has raised over C$237 million and has sent more than 300,000 youth to a multi-year camp-based program at one of seven Tims Camps in Canada and the United States. In addition, Tim Hortons’ annual Smile Cookie initiative is empowering restaurant owners to sell special Smile Cookies for a full week and donate 100% of the proceeds. Since the first-ever Smile Cookie campaign in 1996, this charitable campaign has raised more than C$92 million for local charities, hospitals, and community programs.
The Popeyes Foundation: The mission of the Popeyes Foundation is to strengthen communities with food and support in times of need. The Popeyes Foundation contributes to communities through third-party initiatives and has provided $1.7 million and over 4 million meals to children in local communities since 2018. The Foundation additionally supports the Popeyes family directly through the Popeyes Foundation Family Fund. This fund supports U.S. employees who may be victims of natural disasters or other emergency hardship situations. Since 2017 through December 31, 2022, 530 Popeyes team members have been helped through close to $500,000 in grants through the fund.
Firehouse Subs Public Safety Foundation: Firehouse Subs was founded by two brothers and former firefighters in 1994 and was built on a passion for hearty and flavorful food, heartfelt service, and public safety. In 2005, the Firehouse Subs founders established the non-profit Firehouse Subs Public Safety Foundation in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. Since that day through December 31, 2022, a portion of every purchase goes to the Firehouse Public Safety Foundation which has granted $73 million to provide lifesaving equipment, training, and support to first responders and public safety organizations.

10
Table of Contents
Available Information
We make available free of charge on or through the Investor Relations section of our internet website at www.rbi.com, all materials that we file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material with the SEC and with the Canadian Securities Administrators. This information is also available at www.sec.gov, an internet site maintained by the SEC that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, and on the System for Electronic Document Analysis and Retrieval (“SEDAR”) at www.sedar.com, a website maintained by the Canadian Securities Administrators. The references to our website address, the SEC’s website address and the website maintained by the Canadian Securities Administrators do not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained in these websites and should be not considered part of this document.
A copy of our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Ethics and Conduct for Non-Restaurant Employees, Code of Ethics for Executive Officers, Code of Conduct for Directors and the Charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, and Conflicts Committee of our board of directors are posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.rbi.com.
Our principal executive offices are located at 130 King Street West, Suite 300, Toronto, Ontario M5X 1E1, Canada. Our telephone number is (905) 339-6011.
11
Table of Contents
Item 1A. Risk Factors
Risks Related to Our Business Operations
We face intense competition in our markets, which could negatively impact our business.
The restaurant industry is intensely competitive and we compete with many well-established food service companies on the basis of product choice, quality, affordability, service and location. With few barriers to entry, our competitors include a variety of independent local operators, in addition to well-capitalized regional, national and international restaurant chains and franchises, and new competitors, such as virtual brands and dark kitchens, may emerge at any time. Furthermore, delivery aggregators and food delivery services provide consumers with convenient access to a broad range of competing restaurant chains and food retailers, particularly in urbanized areas, and may form a closer relationship with our customers and increase costs. Each of our brands also competes for qualified franchisees, suitable restaurant locations and management and personnel.
Our ability to compete will depend on the success of our plans to effectively respond to consumer preferences, improve existing products, develop and roll-out new products, and manage the complexity of restaurant operations as well as the impact of our competitors’ actions. In addition, our long-term success will depend on our ability to strengthen our customers' digital experience through mobile ordering, delivery, loyalty programs, and social interaction. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources, higher revenues and greater economies of scale than we do. These advantages may allow them to implement their operational strategies more quickly or effectively than we can or benefit from changes in technologies, which could harm our competitive position. These competitive advantages may be exacerbated in a difficult economy, thereby permitting our competitors to gain market share. We may be unable to successfully respond to changing consumer preferences, including with respect to new technologies and alternative methods of delivery. In addition, online platforms and aggregators may direct potential customers to other options based on paid placements, online reviews or other factors. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position, we could experience lower demand for products, downward pressure on prices, reduced margins, an inability to take advantage of new business opportunities, a loss of market share, reduced franchisee profitability and an inability to attract qualified franchisees in the future.
Failure to preserve the value and relevance of our brands could negatively impact our financial results.
We depend in large part on the value of the TH, BK, PLK and FHS brands. To be successful in the future, we must preserve, enhance and leverage the value of our brands. Brand value is based in part on consumer tastes, preferences and perceptions on a variety of factors, including the nutritional content, methods of production and preparation of our products and our business practices, including with respect to animal welfare, sustainability and other environmental or social concerns. Consumer acceptance of our products may be influenced by or subject to change for a variety of reasons. For example, adverse publicity associated with nutritional, health and other scientific studies and conclusions, which constantly evolve and often have contradictory implications, may drive popular opinion against quick service restaurants in general, which may impact the demand for our products. Moreover, health campaigns against products we offer in favor of foods that are perceived as healthier may affect consumer perception of our product offerings and impact the value of our brands.
In addition, adverse publicity related to litigation, regulation (including initiatives intended to drive consumer behavior) or incidents involving us, our franchisees, competitors or suppliers may impact the value of our brands by discouraging customers from buying our products. Perceptions may also be affected by activist campaigns to promote adverse perceptions of the quick service restaurant industry or our brands and/or our operations, suppliers, franchisees or other partners such as campaigns aimed at sustainability or living-wage opinions. Consumer demand for our products and our brand equity could diminish if we, our employees or our franchisees or other business partners fail to preserve the quality of our products, act or are perceived to act as unethical, illegal, racially-biased or in a socially irresponsible manner, including with respect to the sourcing, content or sale of our products or the use of consumer data for general or direct marketing or other purposes, fail to comply with laws and regulations, publicly take controversial positions or actions or fail to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience in each of our markets. If we are unsuccessful in addressing consumer adverse perceptions, our brands and our financial results may suffer.
Economic conditions have and may continue to adversely affect consumer discretionary spending and our business and results.
We believe that our restaurant sales, guest traffic and profitability are strongly correlated to consumer discretionary spending, which is influenced by general economic conditions, unemployment levels, the availability of discretionary income, inflation, and, ultimately, consumer confidence. A protracted economic slowdown, increased unemployment and underemployment of our customer base, decreased salaries and wage rates, inflation, rising interest rates or other industry-wide cost pressures adversely affect consumer behavior by weakening consumer confidence and decreasing consumer spending for restaurant dining occasions. Governmental or other responses to economic challenges may be unable to restore or maintain consumer confidence. As a result of these factors, during
12
Table of Contents
recessionary periods we and our franchisees may experience reduced sales and profitability, which may cause our business and operating results to suffer.
Our results can be adversely affected by unforeseen events, such as adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, war or terrorist attacks, pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, or other catastrophic events.
Unforeseen events, such as adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or catastrophic events, can adversely impact restaurant sales. Natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, and severe adverse weather conditions and health pandemics whether occurring in Canada, the United States or abroad, can keep customers in the affected area from dining out, cause damage to or closure of restaurants and result in lost opportunities for our restaurants.
For example, measures implemented to reduce the spread of COVID-19 adversely affected workforces, customers, consumer sentiment, supply chains, economies and financial markets, and, along with decreased consumer spending, led to an economic downturn and increased inflation in many of our markets. As a result of COVID-19 and resulting labor challenges, we and our franchisees have experienced store closures and instances of reduced store-level operations, including reduced operating hours and dining-room closures. While markets have reopened, local conditions and new variants have and may again lead to closures or increased limitations. As a result of COVID-19, restaurant traffic and system-wide sales have been and may continue to be significantly negatively impacted.
We cannot predict the effects that actual or threatened armed conflicts such as the war in Ukraine, terrorist attacks, efforts to combat terrorism, or heightened security requirements will have on our future operations. Because a significant portion of our restaurant operating costs are fixed or semi-fixed in nature, the loss of sales and increases in labor, energy and commodity costs during these periods hurt our and our franchisees’ operating margins and can result in restaurant operating losses and our loss of royalties.
Our results depend on effective marketing and advertising, successful new products launches and digital engagement.
Our revenues are heavily influenced by brand marketing and advertising and by our ability to develop and launch new and innovative products. If our marketing and advertising programs are not successful, or we fail to develop commercially successful new products, our ability to attract new guests and retain existing guests and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Because franchisees contribute to advertising funds based on a percentage of gross sales at their franchise restaurants, advertising fund expenditures generally are dependent upon restaurant sales volumes. If system-wide sales decline, amounts available for our marketing and advertising programs will be reduced. Also, to the extent we use value offerings in our marketing and advertising programs to drive traffic, the low price offerings may condition our guests to resist higher prices in a more favorable economic environment.
In addition, we continue to focus on transforming the restaurant experience through technology and digital engagement to improve our service model and strengthen relationships with customers, including through digital channels, loyalty initiatives, mobile ordering and payment systems and delivery initiatives. These initiatives may not have the anticipated impact on our franchise sales and therefore we may not fully realize the intended benefits of these significant investments. Also, utilizing third-party delivery services may not be as profitable as sales directly to our guests and may also introduce food quality and customer satisfaction risks outside of our control.
The global scope of our business subjects us to risks and costs and may cause our profitability to decline.
Our global operations expose us to risks in managing the differing cultural, regulatory, geopolitical and economic environments in the countries where our restaurants operate. These risks, which can vary substantially by market and may increase in importance as our franchisees expand operations in international markets, are described in many of the risk factors discussed in this report and include the following:
•governmental laws, regulations and policies adopted to manage national economic conditions, such as increases in taxes, austerity measures that impact consumer spending, monetary policies that may impact inflation rates and currency fluctuations;
•the imposition of import restrictions or controls;
•the effects of legal and regulatory changes and the burdens and costs of our compliance with a variety of foreign laws;
•changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment and trade in the countries in which we operate;
•compliance with U.S., Canadian and other anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, including compliance by our employees, contractors, licensees or agents and those of our strategic partners and joint ventures;
•risks and costs associated with political and economic instability, corruption, anti-American or anti-Canadian sentiment and social and ethnic unrest in the countries in which we operate;
13
Table of Contents
•the risks of operating in developing or emerging markets in which there are significant uncertainties regarding the interpretation, application and enforceability of laws, regulations, contract rights and intellectual property rights;
•risks arising from the significant and rapid fluctuations in currency exchange markets and the decisions and positions that we take to hedge such volatility;
•the impact of labor costs on our franchisees' margins given changing labor conditions and difficulties experienced by our franchisees in staffing their international operations; and
•the effects of increases in the taxes we pay and other changes in applicable tax laws.
The conflict between Russia and Ukraine may continue to adversely impact economic conditions in Europe and elsewhere including through increased commodity, labor and energy costs that may adversely affect us and our franchisees’ restaurants.
Our operations are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates.
Because our reporting currency is U.S. dollars, the operations of TH, BK, PLK and FHS that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar are translated to U.S. dollars for our financial reporting purposes and are impacted by fluctuations in currency exchange rates and changes in currency regulations. In addition, fluctuations in interest rates may affect our business. Although we attempt to minimize these risks through geographic diversification and the utilization of derivative financial instruments, our risk management strategies may not be effective and our results of operations could be adversely affected.
Increases in food, equipment and commodity costs or shortages or interruptions in supply or delivery thereof could harm our operating results and the results of our franchisees.
The profitability of our franchisees and us depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food, equipment and commodity and supply costs. With respect to our TH business, volatility in connection with certain key commodities that we purchase in the ordinary course of business can impact our revenues, costs and margins. If commodity prices rise, franchisees may experience reduced sales due to decreased consumer demand at retail prices that have been raised to offset increased commodity prices, which may reduce franchisee profitability. In addition, the markets for beef and chicken are subject to significant price fluctuations due to seasonal shifts, climate conditions, the cost of grain, disease, industry demand, international commodity markets, food safety concerns, product recalls, government regulation, labor availability and cost and other factors, all of which are beyond our control and, in many instances unpredictable. Such increases in commodity costs may materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.
We and our franchisees are dependent on frequent deliveries of fresh food products that meet our specifications. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of fresh food products or equipment caused by unanticipated demand, natural disasters or unforeseen events, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, problems in production or distribution, inclement weather, delays or restrictions on shipping and/or manufacturing, closures of supplier or distributor facilities, financial distress or insolvency of suppliers or distributors or other conditions have and in the future could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients and equipment, which could adversely affect our operating results. As of December 31, 2022, we have only a few distributors that service most of our BK, PLK and FHS operations in the U.S., and our operations could be adversely affected if any of these distributors were unable to fulfill their responsibilities and we were unable to locate a substitute distributor in a timely manner.
Our supply chain operations subject us to additional risks and may cause our profitability to decline.
We operate a vertically integrated supply chain for our TH business in which we manufacture, warehouse, and distribute certain food and restaurant supplies to TH restaurants. Risks associated with this strategy include:
•delays and/or difficulties associated with, or liabilities arising from, owning a manufacturing, warehouse and distribution business;
•maintenance, operations and/or management of the facilities, equipment, employees and inventories;
•limitations on the flexibility of controlling capital expenditures and overhead;
•increased transportation, shipping, food and other supply costs;
•inclement weather or extreme weather events;
•shortages or interruptions in availability or supply of high-quality coffee beans, perishable food products and/or their ingredients;
•variations in the quality of food and beverage products and/or their ingredients; and
•political, physical, environmental, labor, or technological disruptions (such as from cybersecurity incidents) in our or our suppliers’ manufacturing and/or warehousing plants, facilities, or equipment.
14
Table of Contents
If we do not adequately address the challenges related to these vertically integrated operations or the overall level of utilization or production decreases for any reason, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely impacted. Moreover, interruptions in the availability and delivery of food, beverages and other supplies to our restaurants arising from shortages or greater than expected demand, may increase costs or reduce revenues. As of December 31, 2022, we have only one or a few suppliers to service each category of products sold at our TH restaurants, and the loss of any one of these suppliers would likely adversely affect our business.
We and our franchisees may be unable to secure desirable restaurant locations to maintain and grow our restaurant portfolios.
The success of any restaurant depends in substantial part on its location. Neighborhood or economic conditions where our restaurants are located could decline in the future as demographic patterns change, resulting in potentially reduced sales in those locations. Competition for restaurant locations can also be intense and there may be delays or cancellation of new site developments by developers and landlords, which may be exacerbated by factors related to the commercial real estate or credit markets. If franchisees cannot obtain desirable locations for their restaurants at reasonable prices due to, among other things, higher than anticipated acquisition, construction and/or development costs of new restaurants, difficulty negotiating leases with acceptable terms, onerous land use or zoning restrictions, or challenges in securing required governmental permits, then their ability to execute their respective growth strategies may be adversely affected.
Based on their size advantage and/or their greater financial resources, some of our competitors may have the ability to negotiate more favorable lease terms than we can and some landlords and developers may offer priority or grant exclusivity to some of our competitors for desirable locations. As a result, we or our franchisees may not be able to obtain new leases or renew existing leases on acceptable terms, if at all, which could adversely affect our sales and brand-building initiatives.
Food safety concerns and concerns about the health risk of fast food may adversely affect our business.
Food safety is a top priority for us and we dedicate substantial resources to ensure that our customers enjoy safe, high-quality food products. However, food-borne illnesses and other food safety issues have occurred in the food industry in the past and could occur in the future. Also, our reliance on third-party food suppliers, distributors and food delivery aggregators increases the risk that food-borne illness incidents could be caused by factors outside of our control and that multiple locations would be affected rather than a single restaurant. Any report or publicity, including through social media, linking us or one of our franchisees or suppliers to instances of food-borne illness or other food safety issues, including food tampering, adulteration or contamination, could adversely affect our brands and reputation as well as our sales and profits. Such occurrence at restaurants of competitors could adversely affect sales as a result of negative publicity about the industry generally. The occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, which could result in disruptions in our supply chain, significantly increase costs and/or lower margins for us and our franchisees. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in stricter health regulations and guidelines, which have increased operating costs for our franchisees.
Some of our products contain caffeine, dairy products, fats, sugar and other compounds and allergens, the health effects of which are the subject of public scrutiny, including suggesting that excessive consumption of these compounds can lead to a variety of adverse health effects. An unfavorable report on the health effects of any compounds present in our products, or negative publicity or litigation arising from other health risks such as obesity, could significantly reduce the demand for our beverages and food products. A decrease in customer traffic as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity could materially and adversely affect our brands and our business.
If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, the value of our brands and our business may be harmed.
Our brands, which represent approximately 46% of the total assets on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2022, are very important to our success and our competitive position. We rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, service marks, trade secrets, patents, industrial designs, and other intellectual property rights to protect our brands and the respective branded products. While we have registered certain trademarks in Canada, the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions, not all of the trademarks that our brands currently use have been registered in all of the countries in which we do business, and they may never be registered in all of these countries. We may not be able to adequately protect our trademarks, and our use of these trademarks may result in liability for trademark infringement, trademark dilution or unfair competition. The steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property in Canada, the U.S. and other countries may not be adequate and we may, from time to time, be required to institute litigation to enforce our trademarks or other intellectual property rights or to protect our trade secrets. Further, third parties may assert or prosecute infringement claims against us. In these cases, our proprietary rights could be challenged, circumvented, infringed or invalidated. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our revenue, profitability and prospects regardless of whether we are able to successfully enforce our rights. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of Canada and the U.S.
15
Table of Contents
Changes in regulations may adversely affect restaurant operations and our financial results.
Our restaurants are subject to licensing and regulation by health, sanitation, safety and other agencies in the state, province and/or municipality in which the restaurant is located. Federal, state, provincial and local government authorities have enacted and may enact laws, rules or regulations that impact restaurant operations and may increase the cost of doing business. In developing markets, we face the risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. If we fail to comply with existing or future laws, we may be subject to governmental fines and sanctions.
We are subject to various provincial, state and foreign laws that govern the offer and sale of a franchise, including in the U.S., to an FTC rule. Various provincial, state and foreign laws regulate certain aspects of the franchise relationship, including terminations and the refusal to renew franchises. The failure to comply with these laws and regulations in any jurisdiction or to obtain required government approvals could result in a ban or temporary suspension on future franchise sales, fines and penalties or require us to make offers of rescission or restitution, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. We could also face lawsuits by franchisees based upon alleged violations of these laws.
If we are unable to effectively manage the risks associated with our complex regulatory environment, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.
Climate change and our inability to effectively implement measures to address environmental, social and governance disclosure and business practices could negatively affect our business or damage our reputation.
We, our franchisees and our supply chain are subject to risks and costs arising from the effects of climate change, greenhouse gases, and diminishing energy and water resources. These risks include the increased public focus, including by governmental and nongovernmental organizations, on these and other environmental and social sustainability matters, such as packaging and waste, animal health and welfare, deforestation and land use. Also, we face increased pressure to make commitments, set targets, provide expanded disclosure and establish additional goals and take actions to meet them which could expose us to market, operational and execution costs or risks. Addressing environmental and social sustainability matters requires system-wide coordination and alignment, and the standards by which these matters are measured are evolving and subject to assumptions that could change over time.
Climate change may have a negative effect on agricultural productivity which may result in decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities used in our products, such as beef, chicken, coffee beans and dairy. Climate change may also increase the frequency or severity of natural disasters and other extreme weather conditions, which could disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products. Concern over climate change and other environmental and social sustainable business practices may result in new or increased legal and regulatory requirements or generally accepted business practices, which could significantly increase costs. Any failure to achieve our goals with respect to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and other sustainable business practices or perception of a failure to act responsibly with respect to the environment or to effectively respond to regulatory requirements concerning climate change or other sustainable business practices can lead to adverse publicity, diminish the value of our brands and result in an adverse effect on our business.
Outsourcing certain functions to third-party vendors subjects us to risks, including disruptions and increased costs.
We have outsourced certain administrative functions for our business, certain information technology support services and benefit plan administration to third-party service providers. In the future, we may outsource other functions to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. If the outsourced service providers do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may incur additional costs in connection with such failure to perform. Depending on the function involved, such failures may also lead to business disruption, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of sales and customers, the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, and the loss of data through security breach or otherwise. Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, cause us to face significant fines, customer notice obligations or costly litigation, harm our reputation with our customers or prevent us from paying our collective suppliers or employees or receiving payments on a timely basis.

16
Table of Contents
Risks Related to Our Fully Franchised Business Model
Our fully franchised business model presents a number of disadvantages and risks.
Nearly all of our restaurants are owned and operated by franchisees. Under our fully franchised business model, our future prospects depend on our ability to attract new franchisees for each of our brands that meet our criteria and the willingness and ability of franchisees to open restaurants in existing and new markets. We may be unable to identify franchisees who meet our criteria, or franchisees we identify may not successfully implement their expansion plans.
Our fully franchised business model presents a number of other drawbacks, such as limited influence over franchisees, limited ability to facilitate changes in restaurant ownership, limitations on enforcement of franchise obligations due to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings and reliance on franchisees to participate in our strategic initiatives. While we can mandate certain strategic initiatives through enforcement of our franchise agreements, we will need the active support of our franchisees if the implementation of these initiatives is to be successful. The failure of franchisees to support our marketing programs and strategic initiatives could adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy and could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. On occasion we have encountered, and may in the future encounter, challenges in receiving specific financial and operational results from our franchisees in a consistent and timely manner, which can negatively impact our business and operating results.
Our competitors that have a significantly higher percentage of company-operated restaurants than we do may have greater influence over their respective restaurant systems and greater ability to implement operational initiatives and business strategies, including their marketing and advertising programs.
The ability of our franchisees and prospective franchisees to obtain financing for development of new restaurants or reinvestment in existing restaurants depends in part upon financial and economic conditions beyond their control. If our franchisees are unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms or otherwise do not devote sufficient resources to develop new restaurants or reinvest in existing restaurants, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. Also, investments in restaurant remodels and upgrades by franchisees and us may not have the expected results with respect to consumer sentiment, increased traffic or return on investment.
Our franchisees are also dependent upon their ability to attract and retain qualified employees in an intensely competitive labor market.
Our results are closely tied to the success of independent franchisees, and we have limited influence over their operations.
We generate revenues in the form of royalties, fees and other amounts from our franchisees and our operating results are closely tied to their success. However, our franchisees are independent operators and we cannot control many factors that impact the profitability of their restaurants. At times, we have and may in the future provide cash flow support to franchisees by extending loans, advancing cash payments and/or providing rent relief where we have property control. These actions have and may in the future adversely affect our cash flow and financial results.
If sales trends or economic conditions worsen for franchisees, their financial results may deteriorate, which could result in, among other things, restaurant closures; delayed or reduced payments to us of royalties, advertising contributions, rents and, delayed or reduced payments for TH products and supplies; and an inability for such franchisees to obtain financing to fund development, restaurant remodels or equipment initiatives on acceptable terms or at all. Also, franchisees may not be willing or able to renew their franchise agreements with us due to low sales volumes, high real estate costs, or the failure to secure lease renewals. If our franchisees fail to renew their franchise agreements, our royalty revenues may decrease which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.
Franchisees and sub-franchisees may not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with our established procedures, standards and requirements or standards set by applicable law, including sanitation and pest control standards or data processing and cybersecurity requirements. Any operational shortcoming of a franchise or sub-franchise restaurant is likely to be attributed by guests to the entire brand and may be shared widely through social media, thus damaging the brand’s reputation and potentially affecting our revenues and profitability. We may not be able to identify problems and take effective action quickly enough and, as a result, our image and reputation may suffer, and our franchise revenues and results of operations could decline.
17
Table of Contents
Labor challenges for franchisees or being liable as a joint employer could adversely affect our business.
The inability of our franchisees to recruit and retain qualified individuals or increased costs to do so, including due to labor market dynamics or increases in legally required wages, may delay openings of new restaurants by our franchisees and could adversely impact existing franchise restaurant operations and franchisee profitability, which could slow our growth. If employees at either franchisee or company restaurants become unionized, their or our business could be negatively affected by factors that increase cost, decrease flexibility or otherwise disrupt the business. Responses to labor organizing efforts by our franchisees or us could negatively impact brand perception and our business and financial results. In September 2022, California passed legislation establishing a council to set sector-wide standards on wages, hours and working conditions related to the health, safety and welfare of fast food restaurant workers; although a voter referendum blocked the new law, the potential referendum challenge is set to be on the ballot in 2024. This law and other labor related laws enacted or currently proposed at the federal, state, provincial or local level could increase our and our franchisees’ labor costs and decrease profitability.
Joint employer status is a developing area of franchise and labor and employment law that could be subject to changes in legislation, administrative agency interpretation or jurisprudential developments that may increase franchisor liability in the future. In September 2022, the National Labor Relations Board proposed a new rule that would allow a party asserting a joint-employment relationship to establish joint-employer status by using evidence of indirect and reserved forms of control bearing on an employee’s essential terms and conditions of employment. If this broader standard were to be adopted, which is likely, we could potentially be liable for unfair labor practices and other violations by franchisees or we could be required to conduct collective bargaining negotiations regarding employees of franchisees, who are independent employers. In such event, our operating costs may increase as a result of required modifications to business practices, increased litigation, governmental investigations or proceedings, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil liability. Employee claims that are brought against us as a result of joint employer standards and status may also, in addition to legal and financial liability, create negative publicity that could adversely affect our brands and divert financial and management resources. A significant increase in the number of these claims, or an increase in the number of successful claims, could adversely impact our brand’s reputation, which may cause significant harm.
Our future growth and profitability will depend on our ability to successfully accelerate international development with strategic partners and joint ventures.
We believe that the future growth and profitability of each of our brands will depend on our ability to successfully accelerate international development with strategic partners and joint ventures in new and existing international markets. New markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets. As a result, new restaurants in those markets may have lower average restaurant sales than restaurants in existing markets and may take longer than expected to reach target sales and profit levels or may never do so. We will need to build brand awareness in those new markets we enter through advertising and promotional activity, and those activities may not promote our brands as effectively as intended, if at all.
We have adopted a master franchise development model for all of our brands, which in markets with strong growth potential may include participating in strategic joint ventures, to accelerate international growth. These arrangements may give our joint venture and/or master franchise partners the exclusive right to develop and manage our restaurants in a specific country or countries, including, in some cases, the right to sub-franchise. A joint venture partnership involves special risks, including the following: our joint venture partners may have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with those of the joint venture or us, or our joint venture partners may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone. Our master franchise arrangements present similar risks and uncertainties. We cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners or master franchisees, including any nonperformance, default or bankruptcy of joint venture partners or master franchisees. While sub-franchisees are required to operate their restaurants in accordance with specified operations, safety and health standards, we are not party to the agreements with the sub-franchisees and are dependent upon our master franchisees to enforce these standards with respect to sub-franchised restaurants. As a result, the ultimate success and quality of any sub-franchised restaurant rests with the master franchisee and the sub-franchisee. In addition, the termination of an arrangement with a master franchisee or a lack of expansion by certain master franchisees has and may in the future result in the delay or discontinuation of the development of franchise restaurants, or an interruption in the operation of our brand in a particular market or markets. We may not be able to find another operator to resume development activities in such market or markets. Any such delay, discontinuation or interruption could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.

18
Table of Contents
Risks Related to our Indebtedness
Our substantial leverage and obligations to service our debt could adversely affect our business.
As of December 31, 2022, we had aggregate outstanding indebtedness of $13,045 million, including senior secured term loan facilities in an aggregate principal amount of $6,440 million, senior secured first lien notes in an aggregate principal amount of $2,800 million and senior secured second lien notes in an aggregate principal amount of $3,650 million. Subject to restrictions set forth in these instruments, we may also incur significant additional indebtedness in the future, some of which may be secured debt. This may have the effect of increasing our total leverage.
Our substantial leverage could have important potential consequences, including, but not limited to:
•increasing our vulnerability to, and reducing our flexibility to respond to, changes in our business and general adverse economic and industry conditions;
•requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to our debt service, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, joint ventures, product research, dividends, share repurchases or other corporate purposes;
•increasing our vulnerability to a downgrade of our credit rating, which could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity and access to capital markets;
•placing us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to certain of our competitors who are not as highly leveraged;
•restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;
•exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates for variable interest rate borrowings under our credit facilities;
•the discontinuation of the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) after June 2023 and the replacement with an alternative reference rate may adversely impact our interest rates and our interest rate hedging strategy;
•making it more difficult for us to repay, refinance or satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt;
•limiting our ability to borrow additional funds in the future and increasing the cost of any such borrowing; and
•exposing us to risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency as we earn profits in a variety of currencies around the world and substantially all of our debt is denominated in U.S. dollars.
If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to pay indebtedness and other funding needs or refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all, our financial condition may be materially adversely affected.
Our indebtedness limits our ability to take certain actions and could delay or prevent a future change of control.
The terms of our indebtedness include a number of restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness or guarantee or prepay indebtedness; pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of capital stock; make investments or acquisitions; create liens or use assets as security in other transactions; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of substantially all of our or our subsidiaries’ assets; make intercompany transactions; and enter into transactions with affiliates. These limitations may hinder our ability to finance future operations and capital needs and our ability to pursue business opportunities and activities that may be in our interest. In addition, our ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control.
A breach of the covenants under our indebtedness could result in an event of default under the applicable agreement allowing the debt holders to accelerate repayment of such debt as well as any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, default under our senior secured credit facilities would also permit the lenders thereunder to terminate all other commitments to extend additional credit thereunder, including under the revolver. Similarly, in the event of a change of control, pursuant to the terms of our indebtedness, we may be required to repay our credit facilities, or offer to repurchase the senior secured first lien and second lien notes as well as future indebtedness. Such current and future terms could have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change of control or may discourage a potential acquirer from proposing or completing a transaction that may otherwise have presented a premium to our shareholders.
Following the occurrence of either an event of default or change of control, we may not have sufficient resources to repurchase, repay or redeem our obligations, as applicable, and we may not be able to obtain additional financing to satisfy these obligations on terms favorable to us or at all. Also, if we were unable to repay the amounts due under our secured indebtedness, the holders of such indebtedness could proceed against the collateral that secures such indebtedness. In the event our creditors accelerate the repayment of our secured indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness.

19
Table of Contents
Risks Related to Taxation
Unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect the taxes we pay and our profitability.
We are subject to income and other taxes in Canada, the United States, and numerous foreign jurisdictions. A taxation authority may disagree with certain of our views, including, for example, the allocation of profits by tax jurisdiction, and the deductibility of our interest expense, and may take the position that material income tax liabilities, interest, penalties, or other amounts are payable by us, in which case, we expect to contest such assessment. Contesting such an assessment may be lengthy and costly and if we were unsuccessful, the implications could be materially adverse to us and affect our effective income tax rate and/or operating income.
From time to time, we are subject to additional state and local income tax audits, international income tax audits and sales, franchise and value-added tax audits. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The Canada Revenue Agency (the “CRA”), the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) and/or foreign tax authorities may not agree with our interpretation of the tax aspects of reorganizations, initiatives, transactions, or any related matters associated therewith that we have undertaken.
The results of a tax audit or related litigation could result in us not being in a position to take advantage of the effective income tax rates and the level of benefits that we anticipated to achieve as a result of corporate reorganizations, initiatives and transactions, and the implications could have a material adverse effect on our effective income tax rate, income tax provision, net income (loss) or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made.
RBI and Partnership may be treated as U.S. corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could subject us and Partnership to substantial additional U.S. taxes.
Because RBI and Partnership are organized under the laws of Canada, we are classified as foreign entities (and, therefore, non-U.S. tax residents) under general rules of U.S. federal income taxation that an entity is considered a tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation. Even so, the IRS may assert that we should be treated as a U.S. corporation (and, therefore, a U.S. tax resident) for U.S. federal income tax purposes pursuant to complex rules under Section 7874 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). In addition, a retroactive or prospective change to U.S. tax laws in this area could adversely impact this classification. If we were to be treated as a U.S. corporation for federal tax purposes, we could be subject to substantially greater U.S. tax liability than currently contemplated as a non-U.S. corporation.
Future changes to Canadian, U.S. and other foreign tax laws, including future regulations and other interpretive guidance of such tax laws, could materially affect RBI and/or Partnership, and adversely affect their anticipated financial positions and results.
Our effective tax rate, cash taxes and financial results could be adversely impacted by changes in applicable tax laws (including regulatory, administrative, and judicial interpretations and guidance relating to such laws) in the jurisdictions in which we operate.
The 2021 Canadian Federal Budget proposed various tax law changes, including a new limitation on the deductibility of interest and similar expenses; revised draft legislation was released on November 3, 2022, deferring the proposed effective date to taxation years beginning on or after October 1, 2023. In general, the draft legislation proposes to limit the deductibility of interest and other financing-related expenses to the extent that such expenses, net of interest and financing-related income, exceed a fixed ratio of the entity’s tax EBITDA, with a specified carry-back limit and an indefinite carry-forward limit. The proposed rules and their application are complex and could materially increase our future income taxes if enacted, adversely impacting our effective tax rate and financial results.
The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (“IRA”) in the U.S. contains provisions that were effective January 1, 2023, including a 15% corporate alternative minimum tax based on adjusted financial statement income. While we do not currently expect the IRA to have a material impact on our financial statements, we will continue to evaluate its effect as further guidance becomes available. In addition, the U.S. Treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance with respect to existing and new tax laws that may significantly impact how such laws are applied. A number of currently contemplated tax law changes if enacted could materially adversely affect our effective income tax rate, cash taxes and financial results.
The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (“OECD”), the European Union (“EU”) and many countries (including countries in which we operate) have committed to enacting substantial changes to numerous long-standing tax principals impacting how large multinational enterprises are taxed in an effort to limit perceived base erosion and profit shifting incentives, including a 15% global minimum tax applied on a country-by-country basis, likely applicable to periods beginning on or after December 31, 2023. The OECD has issued model rules with respect to various aspects of such proposed changes and ongoing public
20
Table of Contents
consultation with additional guidance expected. The implementation, timing and many details regarding such potential tax law changes remain uncertain as individual countries evaluate and pursue their respective approaches to enacting the principles underlying such model rules. Such global tax developments could materially increase our future income taxes if enacted, adversely impacting our effective tax rate and financial results.
Risks related to Information Technology
The personal information that we collect may be vulnerable to breach, theft, or loss that could adversely affect our reputation, results of operations, and financial condition.
In the ordinary course of our business, we collect, process, transmit, and retain personal information regarding our employees and their families, our franchisees and their employees, vendors, contractors, and consumers, which can include social security numbers, social insurance numbers, banking and tax identification information, health care information, and credit card information and our franchisees collect similar information. In recent years we expanded our development and management of our brands’ mobile apps, online ordering platforms, and in-restaurant kiosks and started to provide point-of-sale software. While our deployment of such technology facilitates our primary goals of generating incremental sales and improving operations at our franchisees’ restaurants as well as additional customer awareness and interest in our brands, such deployment also means that we are collecting and entrusted with additional personal information about our customers. In Canada, we have been the subject of government investigation and purported class action lawsuits based on the use of certain geolocation data for TH mobile app users. Negative publicity regarding these matters or future concerns could adversely affect our reputation and our brands. Some of this personal information is also held and managed by our franchisees, including master franchisees, and certain of our vendors, and in these cases the franchisee or vendor is responsible for complying with local laws (including applicable data privacy laws) and adequately securing the data. A third-party may be able to circumvent the security and business controls that we, our vendors, our franchisees, or our franchisees' vendors use to limit access and use of personal information, which could result in a breach of employee, consumer, or franchisee privacy.
A major breach, theft, or loss of the personal information described above that is held by us, our vendors, our franchisees, or our franchisees' vendors could adversely affect our reputation and restaurant operations as well as result in substantial fines, penalties, indemnification claims, and potential litigation against us which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to risks related with non-compliance of privacy and data protection laws and regulations. For example, under the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), companies must meet certain requirements regarding the handling of personal data or face penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. Furthermore, the collection and safeguarding of personal information has increasingly attracted enhanced scrutiny from the general public in the United States and Canada, which has resulted in additional actual and proposed legislative and regulatory rules at the federal, provincial and state levels (e.g., the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020, Canada's Bill C-11 and Quebec’s Bill-64). These regulations as well as their interpretation and criteria for enforcement, continue to be subject to frequent change, and there may be other jurisdictions that propose or enact new or emerging data privacy requirements in the future. As a result of such legislative and regulatory rules, we may be required to notify the owners of the personal information of any data breaches, which could harm our reputation and financial results, as well as subject us to litigation or actions by regulatory authorities. Furthermore, media or other reports of existing or perceived security vulnerabilities in our systems or those of our franchisees or vendors, or misuse of personal data, even if no breach has been attempted or has occurred, has and in the future may lead to investigations and litigation and may adversely impact our brand, reputation, and business.
Significant capital investments and other expenditures could be required to remedy a breach and prevent future problems, including costs associated with additional security technologies, personnel, experts, and credit monitoring services for those whose data has been breached. These costs, which could be material, could adversely impact our results of operations during the period in which they are incurred. The techniques and sophistication used to conduct cyber-attacks and breaches, as well as the sources and targets of these attacks, change frequently and are often not recognized until such attacks are launched or have been in place for a period of time. Accordingly, our efforts and expenditures to prevent future cyber-attacks or breaches may not be successful.
Information technology system failures or interruptions or breaches of our network security may interrupt our operations, cause reputational harm, subject us to increased operating costs and expose us to litigation.
We rely heavily on our computer systems and network infrastructure across operations including, but not limited to, point-of-sale processing at our restaurants, as well as the systems of our third-party vendors to whom we outsource certain administrative functions. Despite our implementation of security measures, all of our technology systems (including those of our vendors) are vulnerable to damage, disruption or failures due to physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, or other catastrophic events, as well as from problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, internal and external security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms, and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. If any of our or our vendors' technology systems were to fail or become subject to ransomware and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we could experience an interruption in our operations. Furthermore, if unauthorized access to or use of our or our vendors' systems were to occur, data related to our proprietary information could be compromised. The occurrence of any of these incidents could have a material adverse effect on our
21
Table of Contents
future financial condition and results of operations. To the extent that some of our worldwide reporting systems require or rely on manual processes, it could increase the risk of a breach due to human error.
Further, the standards for systems currently used for transmission and approval of electronic payment transactions, and the technology utilized in electronic payment themselves, all of which can put electronic payment data at risk, are determined and controlled by the payment card industry, not by us. If someone is able to circumvent our data security measures or those of third parties with whom we do business, including our franchisees, he or she could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt our operations. Any security breach could expose us to risks of data loss, litigation, liability, and could seriously disrupt our operations. Any resulting negative publicity could significantly harm our reputation and could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.
Finally, we have expended and may need to continue to expend substantial financial and managerial resources to enhance our existing restaurant management systems, financial and management controls, information systems and personnel to accurately capture and reflect the financial and operational activities at our franchise restaurants. On occasion we have encountered, and may in the future encounter, challenges in receiving these results from our franchisees in a consistent and timely manner as a number of our systems and processes are not fully integrated worldwide. To the extent that we are not able to obtain transparency into our operations from our systems and manual estimations and effectively manage the information demands associated with significant growth, it could impair the ability of our management to react quickly to changes in the business or economic environment and our business and operating results could be negatively impacted.
Risks Related to our Common Shares
3G RBH owns approximately 29% of the combined voting power in RBI, and its interests may conflict with or differ from the interests of the other shareholders.
3G Restaurant Brands Holdings LP (“3G RBH”) currently owns approximately 29% of the combined voting power in RBI. So long as 3G RBH continues to directly or indirectly own a significant amount of the voting power, it will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control business decisions of RBI. 3G RBH and its principals may have interests that are different from those of other shareholders, and 3G RBH may exercise its voting and other rights in a manner that may be adverse to the interests of such shareholders. In addition, this concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of RBI, which could cause the market price of our common shares to decline or prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their common shares or Partnership exchangeable units.
Canadian laws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control.
We are a Canadian entity. The Investment Canada Act requires that a “non-Canadian,” as defined therein, file an application for review with the Minister responsible for the Investment Canada Act and obtain approval of the Minister prior to acquiring control of a Canadian business, where prescribed financial thresholds are exceeded. This may discourage a potential acquirer from proposing or completing a transaction that may otherwise present a premium to shareholders.
General Risks
The loss of key management personnel or our inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could hurt our business.
We are dependent on the efforts and abilities of our senior management, including the executives managing each of our brands, and our success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified employees. Failure to attract personnel sufficiently qualified to execute our strategy, or to retain existing key personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Also, integration of strategic transactions such as the acquisition of Firehouse Subs may divert management’s attention from other initiatives, and effectively executing our growth strategy.
We have been, and in the future may be, subject to litigation that could have an adverse effect on our business.
We are regularly involved in litigation including related to disputes with franchisees, suppliers, employees, team members, and customers, as well as disputes over our advertising claims about our food and over our intellectual property. See the discussion of Legal Proceedings in Note 17, “Commitments and Contingencies,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Active and potential disputes with franchisees could damage our brand reputation and our relationships with our broader franchise base. Such litigation may be expensive to defend, harm our reputation and divert resources away from our operations and negatively impact our reported earnings. Also, legal proceedings against a franchisee or its affiliates by third parties, whether in the ordinary course of business or otherwise, may include claims against us by virtue of our relationship with the franchisee. We, or our
22
Table of Contents
business partners, may become subject to claims for infringement of intellectual property rights and we may be required to indemnify or defend our business partners from such claims. Should management’s evaluation of our current exposure to legal matters pending against us prove incorrect and such claims are successful, our exposure could exceed expectations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although some losses may be covered by insurance, if there are significant losses that are not covered, or there is a delay in receiving insurance proceeds, or the proceeds are insufficient to offset our losses fully, our financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments
None.

Item 2. Properties
Our corporate headquarters is located in Toronto, Ontario and consists of approximately 65,000 square feet which we lease. Our U.S. headquarters is located in Miami, Florida and consists of approximately 150,000 square feet which we lease. We also lease office property in Switzerland, Singapore and Jacksonville, Florida. Related to the TH business, we own five distribution centers and own two manufacturing plants throughout Canada. In addition to our corporate headquarters in Toronto, Ontario, we lease one office in Canada and lease one manufacturing plant in the U.S.
As of December 31, 2022, our restaurant footprint was as follows:
TH		BK		PLK		FHS		Total
Franchise Restaurants									
Sites owned by us and leased to franchisees	767 			648 			38 			— 			1,453 	
Sites leased by us and subleased to franchisees	2,764 			716 			45 			— 			3,525 	
Sites owned/leased directly by franchisees	2,062 			18,375 			3,967 			1,203 			25,607 	
Total franchise restaurant sites	5,593 			19,739 			4,050 			1,203 			30,585 	
Company Restaurants									
Sites owned by us	1 			16 			10 			— 			27 	
Sites leased by us	6 			34 			31 			39 			110 	
Total company restaurant sites	7 			50 			41 			39 			137 	
Total system-wide restaurant sites	5,600 			19,789 			4,091 			1,242 			30,722 	
 
We believe that our existing headquarters and other leased and owned facilities are adequate to meet our current requirements.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings
From time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business relating to matters including, but not limited to, disputes with franchisees, suppliers, employees and customers, as well as disputes over our intellectual property.  
See Note 17, “Commitments and Contingencies,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of our Annual Report for more information on certain legal proceedings.
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
23
Table of Contents

Part II
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
Market for Our Common Shares
Our common shares trade on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) and Toronto Stock Exchange (“TSX”) under the ticker symbol “QSR”. The Class B exchangeable limited partnership units of Partnership (the “Partnership exchangeable units”) trade on the TSX under the ticker symbol “QSP”. As of February 14, 2023, there were 21,049 holders of record of our common shares.
Dividend Policy
On February 14, 2023, we announced that the board of directors had declared a cash dividend of $0.55 per common share for the first quarter of 2023. The dividend will be paid on April 5, 2023 to common shareholders of record on March 22, 2023. Partnership will also make a distribution in respect of each Partnership exchangeable unit in the amount of $0.55 per Partnership exchangeable unit, and the record date and payment date for distributions on Partnership exchangeable units are the same as the record date and payment date set forth above.
We are targeting a total of $2.20 in declared dividends per common share and distributions in respect of each Partnership exchangeable unit for 2023.
Although our board of directors declared a cash dividend on our common shares for each quarter of 2022 and for the first quarter of 2023, any future dividends on our common shares will be determined at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, including the terms of the agreements governing our debt and any future indebtedness we may incur, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. Although we are targeting a total of $2.20 in declared dividends per common share and Partnership exchangeable unit for 2023, there is no assurance that we will achieve our target total dividend for 2023 and satisfy our debt service and other obligations.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
On July 28, 2021, our board of directors approved a share repurchase program that allows us to purchase up to $1,000 million of RBI common shares until August 10, 2023. During 2022, we repurchased and cancelled 6,101,364 RBI common shares for $326 million and, during 2021, we repurchased and cancelled 9,247,648 RBI common shares for $551 million and as of December 31, 2022, had $123 million remaining under the authorization.
During 2022, Partnership received exchange notices representing 1,996,818 Partnership exchangeable units, including 301,959 during the fourth quarter of 2022. Pursuant to the terms of the partnership agreement, Partnership satisfied the exchange notices by exchanging the Partnership exchangeable units for the same number of our newly issued common shares. During 2021, Partnership received exchange notices representing 10,119,880 Partnership exchangeable units and satisfied the exchange notices by exchanging the Partnership exchangeable units for the same number of newly issued common shares. During 2020, Partnership received exchange notices representing 10,393,861 Partnership exchangeable units. Pursuant to the terms of the partnership agreement, Partnership satisfied the exchange notices by repurchasing 6,757,692 Partnership exchangeable units for approximately $380 million in cash and exchanging the remaining Partnership exchangeable units for the same number of our newly issued common shares. Pursuant to the terms of the partnership agreement, the purchase price for the Partnership exchangeable units was based on the weighted average trading price of our common shares on the NYSE for the 20 consecutive trading days ending on the last business day prior to the exchange date. Upon the exchange of Partnership exchangeable units, each such Partnership exchangeable unit was automatically deemed cancelled concurrently with such exchange.

24
Table of Contents
Stock Performance Graph
The following graph shows the Company’s cumulative shareholder returns over the period from December 31, 2017 to December 31, 2022. The graph depicts the total return to shareholders from December 31, 2017 through December 31, 2022, relative to the performance of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and the Standard & Poor’s Restaurant Index, a peer group. The graph assumes an investment of $100 in the Company's common stock and each index on December 31, 2017 and the reinvestment of dividends paid since that date. The stock price performance shown in the graph is not necessarily indicative of future price performance.

qsr-20221231_g1.jpg
12/31/2017		12/31/2018		12/31/2019		12/31/2020		12/31/2021		12/31/2022
Restaurant Brands International (NYSE)	$	100 			$	88 			$	110 			$	110 			$	113 			$	125 	
S&P 500 Index	$	100 			$	96 			$	126 			$	149 			$	192 			$	157 	
S&P Restaurant Index	$	100 			$	111 			$	137 			$	162 			$	200 			$	183 	
 

25
Table of Contents
Item 6. [Reserved]





26
Table of Contents
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
You should read the following discussion together with our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes thereto included in Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2022 (our “Annual Report”).
The following discussion includes information regarding future financial performance and plans, targets, aspirations, expectations, and objectives of management, which constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and forward-looking information within the meaning of the Canadian securities laws as described in further detail under “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” that is set forth below. Actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements because of a number of risks and uncertainties, including the matters discussed in the “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” below. In addition, please refer to the risks set forth under the caption “Risk Factors” included in this Annual Report for a further description of risks and uncertainties affecting our business and financial results. Historical trends should not be taken as indicative of future operations and financial results. Other than as required under the U.S. Federal securities laws or the Canadian securities laws, we do not assume a duty to update these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, subsequent events or circumstances, changes in expectations or otherwise.
We prepare our financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP” or “GAAP”). However, this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures to assist readers in understanding our performance. Non-GAAP financial measures either exclude or include amounts that are not reflected in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Where non-GAAP financial measures are used, we have provided the most directly comparable measures calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP, a reconciliation to GAAP measures and a discussion of the reasons why management believes this information is useful to it and may be useful to investors.
Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in this section to “RBI”, the “Company”, “we”, “us” or “our” are to Restaurant Brands International Inc. and its subsidiaries, collectively and all references in this section to “Partnership” are to Restaurant Brands International Limited Partnership and its subsidiaries, collectively.
All references to “$” or “dollars” in this report are to the currency of the United States unless otherwise indicated. All references to “Canadian dollars” or “C$” are to the currency of Canada unless otherwise indicated.
This section generally discusses 2022 and 2021 items and the year-to-year comparisons between 2022 and 2021. For discussion of our financial condition and results of operations for 2020 and the year-to-year comparisons between 2021 and 2020, refer to the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Part II, Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, filed with the SEC on February 23, 2022.
Overview
We are a Canadian corporation that serves as the indirect holding company for Tim Hortons, Burger King, Popeyes and Firehouse Subs and their consolidated subsidiaries. We are one of the world’s largest quick service restaurant (“QSR”) companies with over $35 billion in annual system-wide sales and approximately 30,000 restaurants in more than 100 countries as of December 31, 2022. Our Tim Hortons®, Burger King®, Popeyes® and Firehouse Subs® brands have similar franchise business models with complementary daypart mixes and product platforms. Our four iconic brands are managed independently while benefiting from global scale and sharing of best practices.
Tim Hortons restaurants are quick service restaurants with a menu that includes premium blend coffee, tea, espresso-based hot and cold specialty drinks, fresh baked goods, including donuts, Timbits®, bagels, muffins, cookies and pastries, grilled paninis, classic sandwiches, wraps, soups, and more. Burger King restaurants are quick service restaurants that feature flame-grilled hamburgers, chicken, and other specialty sandwiches, french fries, soft drinks, and other affordably-priced food items. Popeyes restaurants are quick service restaurants featuring a unique “Louisiana” style menu that includes fried chicken, fried shrimp and other seafood, red beans and rice, and other regional items. Firehouse Subs restaurants are quick service restaurants featuring hot and hearty subs piled high with quality meats and cheese as well as chopped salads, chili and soups, signature and other sides, soft drinks and local specialties.

27
Table of Contents
We have four operating and reportable segments: (1) Tim Hortons (“TH”); (2) Burger King (“BK”); (3) Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen (“PLK”); and (4) Firehouse Subs (“FHS”). Our business generates revenue from the following sources: (i) sales, consisting primarily of supply chain sales, which represent sales of products, supplies and restaurant equipment to franchisees, as well as sales to retailers and sales at restaurants owned by us (“Company restaurants”); (ii) franchise revenues, consisting primarily of royalties based on a percentage of sales reported by franchise restaurants and franchise fees paid by franchisees; (iii) property revenues from properties we lease or sublease to franchisees; and (iv) advertising revenues and other services, consisting primarily of advertising fund contributions based on a percentage of sales reported by franchise restaurants.
Firehouse Acquisition
As described in Note 3, “Firehouse Acquisition,” to the notes to the consolidated financial statements, on December 15, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Firehouse Subs for total consideration of approximately $1,016 million (the “Firehouse Acquisition”). Our 2022 consolidated statement of operations includes FHS revenues and segment income for a full fiscal year. Our 2021 consolidated statement of operations included FHS revenues and segment income from the acquisition date of December 15, 2021 through December 26, 2021, the 2021 fiscal year end for FHS.
Operating Metrics
We evaluate our restaurants and assess our business based on the following operating metrics:
•System-wide sales growth refers to the percentage change in sales at all franchise restaurants and Company restaurants (referred to as system-wide sales) in one period from the same period in the prior year.
•Comparable sales refers to the percentage change in restaurant sales in one period from the same prior year period for restaurants that have been open for 13 months or longer for TH, BK and FHS and 17 months or longer for PLK. Additionally, if a restaurant is closed for a significant portion of a month, the restaurant is excluded from the monthly comparable sales calculation.
•System-wide sales growth and comparable sales are measured on a constant currency basis, which means the results exclude the effect of foreign currency translation (“FX Impact”). For system-wide sales growth and comparable sales, we calculate the FX Impact by translating prior year results at current year monthly average exchange rates.
•Unless otherwise stated, system-wide sales growth, system-wide sales and comparable sales are presented on a system-wide basis, which means they include franchise restaurants and Company restaurants. System-wide results are driven by our franchise restaurants, as approximately 100% of system-wide restaurants are franchised. Franchise sales represent sales at all franchise restaurants and are revenues to our franchisees. We do not record franchise sales as revenues; however, our royalty revenues and advertising fund contributions are calculated based on a percentage of franchise sales.
•Net restaurant growth refers to the net increase in restaurant count (openings, net of permanent closures) over a trailing twelve month period, divided by the restaurant count at the beginning of the trailing twelve month period.
These metrics are important indicators of the overall direction of our business, including trends in sales and the effectiveness of each brand’s marketing, operations and growth initiatives.

28
Table of Contents
The following table presents our operating metrics for each of the periods indicated, which have been derived from our internal records. We evaluate our restaurants and assess our business based on these operating metrics. These metrics may differ from those used by other companies in our industry who may define these metrics differently.
2022		2021		2020
System-wide sales growth					
Tim Hortons	13.7 	%		12.5 	%		(17.5)	%
Burger King	14.3 	%		15.9 	%		(11.1)	%
Popeyes	9.4 	%		7.3 	%		17.7 	%
Consolidated (a)	13.4 	%		13.8 	%		(8.6)	%
Firehouse Subs (b)	4.2 	%		25.1 	%		1.8 	%
System-wide sales ($ in millions)					
Tim Hortons	$	7,164 			$	6,526 			$	5,488 	
Burger King	$	25,482 			$	23,450 			$	20,038 	
Popeyes	$	5,951 			$	5,519 			$	5,143 	
Firehouse Subs	$	1,154 			N/A		N/A
Consolidated (a)	$	39,751 			$	35,495 			$	30,669 	
Firehouse Subs (b)	N/A		$	1,091 			$	872 	
Comparable sales					
Tim Hortons	10.0 	%		10.6 	%		(15.7)	%
Burger King	9.7 	%		9.3 	%		(7.9)	%
Popeyes	1.4 	%		(0.4)	%		13.8 	%
Consolidated (a)	8.5 	%		7.9 	%		(6.6)	%
Firehouse Subs (b)	0.6 	%		20.9 	%		(0.2)	%
Net restaurant growth					
Tim Hortons	5.8 	%		6.9 	%		0.3 	%
Burger King	2.8 	%		3.3 	%		(1.1)	%
Popeyes	10.4 	%		7.4 	%		4.1 	%
Firehouse Subs	2.4 	%		N/A		N/A
Consolidated (a)	4.3 	%		4.5 	%		(0.2)	%
Firehouse Subs (b)	N/A		1.6 	%		0.7 	%
System Restaurant count					
Tim Hortons	5,600 			5,291 			4,949 	
Burger King	19,789 			19,247 			18,625 	
Popeyes	4,091 			3,705 			3,451 	
Firehouse Subs	1,242 			1,213 			— 	
Consolidated	30,722 			29,456 			27,025 	
Firehouse Subs (b)	N/A		N/A		1,194 	
 
(a) Consolidated system-wide sales growth and consolidated comparable sales do not include the results of Firehouse Subs for all of the periods presented. Consolidated system-wide sales and consolidated net restaurant growth do not include the results of Firehouse Subs for 2021 and 2020.
(b) For 2022, FHS system-wide sales growth, system-wide sales, comparable sales and net restaurant growth are for the period from December 27, 2021 through December 31, 2022. Firehouse Subs figures for 2021 and 2020 are shown for informational purposes only, consistent with its 2021 and 2020 fiscal calendar.

29
Table of Contents
War in Ukraine
During the first quarter of 2022, we shared a number of actions that we have taken as a result of the events related to Russia's military invasion of Ukraine. Burger King is our only brand with restaurants in Russia, all of which are operated under a master franchise arrangement. We suspended all corporate support for the Russian market, including operations, marketing, and supply chain support in addition to refusing approvals for new investment and expansion. While for 2022 we include results from our franchised restaurants in Russia within reported key business metrics, we did not generate any new profits from restaurants in Russia in 2022 and do not expect to generate any new profits in 2023. Consequently, beginning in the first quarter of 2023, we intend to report key business metrics excluding the results from our franchised restaurants in Russia for all periods presented.
Below are the RBI consolidated and BK segment operational highlights excluding the results from Russia for each of the periods indicated.
Key Business Metrics (excluding Russia)	2022		2021		2020
System-wide sales growth					
    BK	13.5 	%		15.1 	%		(10.9)	%
    Consolidated (a)	12.9 	%		13.3 	%		(8.4)	%
System-wide sales (in US$ millions)					
    BK	$	24,402 			$	22,726 			$	19,532 	
    Consolidated (a)	$	38,671 			$	34,771 			$	30,163 	
Comparable sales					
    BK	9.0 	%		8.7 	%		(7.7)	%
    Consolidated (a)	7.9 	%		7.6 	%		(6.4)	%
Net restaurant growth					
    BK	2.9 	%		3.2 	%		(1.2)	%
    Consolidated (a)	4.4 	%		4.4 	%		(0.3)	%
Restaurant count					
    BK	18,969 			18,427 			17,860 	
    Consolidated	29,902 			28,636 			26,260 	
 
(a)Consolidated system-wide sales growth, consolidated comparable sales, and consolidated net restaurant growth do not include the results of Firehouse Subs for all of the periods presented. Consolidated system-wide sales do not include the results of Firehouse Subs for 2021 and 2020. Consolidated restaurant count does not include the results of Firehouse Subs for 2020.
COVID-19 and Macro Economic Environment
The global crisis resulting from the spread of COVID-19 impacted our global restaurant operations during 2022, 2021 and 2020, though in 2022 the impact was more modest than in the prior years. During 2022, 2021 and 2020, substantially all restaurants remained open, some with limited operations, such as reduced, if any, dine-in capacity, and/or restrictions on hours of operation. Certain markets periodically required temporary closures while implementing government mandated lockdown orders. For example, while most regions eased restrictions, increases in cases and new variants caused certain markets, including China, to re-impose temporary restrictions as a result of government mandates in 2022.
In addition, during 2022, there were increases in commodity, labor, and energy costs partially due to the macroeconomic impact of both COVID-19 and the war in Ukraine. Further significant increases in inflation could affect the global, Canadian and U.S. economies, resulting in foreign exchange pressures and rising interest rates which could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations if we and our franchisees are not able to adjust prices sufficiently to offset the effect of cost increases without negatively impacting consumer demand.
30
Table of Contents
Results of Operations
Tabular amounts in millions of U.S. dollars unless noted otherwise. Segment income may not calculate exactly due to rounding.
 	 		 		 		2022 vs. 2021		2021 vs. 2020
Consolidated	2022		2021		2020		Variance		FX
Impact (a)		Variance
Excluding
FX Impact		Variance		FX
Impact		Variance
Excluding
FX Impact
 	 		 		 		Favorable / (Unfavorable)
Revenues:																	
Sales	$	2,819 			$	2,378 			$	2,013 			$	441 			$	(79)			$	520 			$	365 			$	108 			$	257 	
Franchise and property revenues	2,661 			2,443 			2,121 			218 			(84)			302 			322 			55 			267 	
Advertising revenues and other services	1,025 			918 			834 			107 			(11)			118 			84 			13 			71 	
Total revenues	6,505 			5,739 			4,968 			766 			(174)			940 			771 			176 			595 	
Operating costs and expenses:																	
Cost of sales	2,312 			1,890 			1,610 			(422)			62 			(484)			(280)			(86)			(194)	
Franchise and property expenses	518 			489 			515 			(29)			12 			(41)			26 			(22)			48 	
Advertising expenses and other services	1,077 			986 			870 			(91)			13 			(104)			(116)			(14)			(102)	
General and administrative expenses	631 			484 			407 			(147)			10 			(157)			(77)			(9)			(68)	
(Income) loss from equity method investments	44 			4 			39 			(40)			(1)			(39)			35 			— 			35 	
Other operating expenses (income), net	25 			7 			105 			(18)			(9)			(9)			98 			1 			97 	
Total operating costs and expenses	4,607 			3,860 			3,546 			(747)			87 			(834)			(314)			(130)			(184)	
Income from operations	1,898 			1,879 			1,422 			19 			(87)			106 			457 			46 			411 	
Interest expense, net	533 			505 			508 			(28)			1 			(29)			3 			(1)			4 	
Loss on early extinguishment of debt	— 			11 			98 			11 			— 			11 			87 			— 			87 	
Income before income taxes	1,365 			1,363 			816 			2 			(86)			88 			547 			45 			502 	
Income tax (benefit) expense	(117)			110 			66 			227 			4 			223 			(44)			1 			(45)	
Net income	$	1,482 			$	1,253 			$	750 			$	229 			$	(82)			$	311 			$	503 			$	46 			$	457 	
 
(a)We calculate the FX Impact by translating prior year results at current year monthly average exchange rates. We analyze these results on a constant currency basis as this helps identify underlying business trends, without distortion from the effects of currency movements.
31
Table of Contents
 	 		 		 		2022 vs. 2021		2021 vs. 2020
TH Segment	2022		2021		2020		Variance		FX
Impact (a)		Variance
Excluding
FX Impact		Variance		FX
Impact		Variance
Excluding
FX Impact
 	 		 		 		Favorable / (Unfavorable)
Revenues:																	
Sales	$	2,631 			$	2,249 			$	1,876 			$	382 			$	(79)			$	461 			$	373 			$	108 			$	265 	
Franchise and property revenues	925 			864 			745 			61 			(30)			91 			119 			44 			75 	
Advertising revenues and other services	267 			229 			189 			38 			(8)			46 			40 			11 			29 	
Total revenues	3,823 			3,342 			2,810 			481 			(117)			598 			532 			163 			369 	
Cost of sales	2,131 			1,765 			1,484 			(366)			62 			(428)			(281)			(86)			(195)	
Franchise and property expenses	333 			337 			328 			4 			11 			(7)			(9)			(20)			11 	
Advertising expenses and other services	280 			278 			204 			(2)			10 			(12)			(74)			(12)			(62)	
Segment G&A	127 			109 			93 			(18)			3 			(21)			(16)			(4)			(12)	
Segment depreciation and amortization (b)	109 			126 			113 			17 			4 			13 			(13)			(6)			(7)	
Segment income (c)	1,073 			997 			823 			76 			(35)			111 			174 			47 			127 	
 
(b)Segment depreciation and amortization consists of depreciation and amortization included in cost of sales and franchise and property expenses.
(c)TH segment income includes $13 million, $17 million and $9 million of cash distributions received from equity method investments for 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
 	 		 		 		2022 vs. 2021		2021 vs. 2020
BK Segment	2022		2021		2020		Variance		FX
Impact (a)		Variance
Excluding
FX Impact		Variance		FX
Impact		Variance
Excluding
FX Impact
 	 		 		 		Favorable / (Unfavorable)
Revenues:																	
Sales	$	70 			$	64 			$	64 			$	6 			$	— 			$	6 			$	— 			$	— 			$	— 	
Franchise and property revenues	1,342 			1,292 			1,113 			50 			(52)			102 			179 			11 			168 	
Advertising revenues and other services	485 			457 			425 			28 			(3)			31 			32 			2 			30 	
Total revenues	1,897 			1,813 			1,602 			84 			(55)			139 			211 			13 			198 	
Cost of sales	74 			66 			65 			(8)			— 			(8)			(1)			— 			(1)	
Franchise and property expenses	167 			142 			176 			(25)			1 			(26)			34 			(2)			36 	
Advertising expenses and other services	522 			473 			442 			(49)			3 			(52)			(31)			(2)			(29)	
Segment G&A	177 			162 			146 			(15)			4 			(19)			(16)			(1)			(15)	
Segment depreciation and amortization (b)	47 			48 			49 			1 			1 			— 			1 			— 			1 	
Segment income (d)	1,007 			1,021 			823 			(14)			(48)			34 			198 			8 			190 	
 
(d)BK segment income includes $1 million and $4 million of cash distributions received from equity method investments for 2022 and 2021, respectively. No significant cash distributions were received from equity method investments in 2020.
32
Table of Contents
2022 vs. 2021		2021 vs. 2020
PLK Segment	2022		2021		2020		Variance		FX
Impact (a)		Variance
Excluding
FX Impact		Variance		FX
Impact		Variance
Excluding
FX Impact
 							Favorable / (Unfavorable)
Revenues:																	
Sales	$	78 			$	64 			$	73 			$	14 			$	— 			$	14 			$	(9)			$	— 			$	(9)	
Franchise and property revenues	309 			283 			263 			26 			(2)			28 			20 			— 			20 	
Advertising revenues and other services	260 			232 			220 			28 			— 			28 			12 			— 			12 	
Total revenues	647 			579 			556 			68 			(2)			70 			23 			— 			23 	
Cost of sales	72 			58 			61 			(14)			— 			(14)			3 			— 			3 	
Franchise and property expenses	11 			9 			11 			(2)			— 			(2)			2 			— 			2 	
Advertising expenses and other services	263 			235 			224 			(28)			— 			(28)			(11)			— 			(11)	
Segment G&A	65 			56 			49 			(9)			— 			(9)			(7)			— 			(7)	
Segment depreciation and amortization (b)	7 			7 			8 			— 			— 			— 			1 			— 			1 	
Segment income	242 			228 			218 			14 			(2)			16 			10 			— 			10 	
 
FHS Segment	2022		2021		Variance
Revenues:					
Sales	$	40 			$	1 			$	39 	
Franchise and property revenues	85 			4 			81 	
Advertising revenues and other services	13 			— 			13 	
Total revenues	138 			5 			133 	
Cost of sales	35 			1 			(34)	
Franchise and property expenses	7 			1 			(6)	
Advertising expenses and other services	12 			— 			(12)	
Segment G&A	31 			1 			(30)	
Segment depreciation and amortization (b)	2 			— 			(2)	
Segment income	56 			2 			54 	
 

Comparable Sales
TH comparable sales were 10.0% during 2022, including Canada comparable sales of 11.6%.
BK comparable sales were 9.7% during 2022, including rest of the world comparable sales of 15.9% and U.S. comparable sales of 2.2%.
PLK comparable sales were 1.4% during 2022, including U.S. comparable sales of (0.5)%.
FHS comparable sales were 0.6% during 2022, including U.S. comparable sales of 1.1%.

33
Table of Contents
Sales and Cost of Sales
Sales include TH supply chain sales and sales from Company restaurants. TH supply chain sales represent sales of products, supplies and restaurant equipment, as well as sales to retailers. Sales from Company restaurants represent restaurant-level sales to our guests.
Cost of sales includes costs associated with the management of our TH supply chain, including cost of goods, direct labor and depreciation, as well as the cost of products sold to retailers. Cost of sales also includes food, paper and labor costs of Company restaurants.
During 2022, the increase in sales was driven by an increase of $461 million in our TH segment, an increase of $39 million from our FHS segment reflecting a full year, an increase of $14 million in our PLK segment and an increase of $6 million in our BK segment, partially offset by an unfavorable FX Impact of $79 million. The increase in our TH segment was primarily driven by an increase in supply chain sales due to an increase in system-wide sales as well as increases in commodity prices passed on to franchisees and an increase in sales to retailers.
During 2022, the increase in cost of sales was primarily driven by an increase of $428 million in our TH segment, an increase of $34 million from our FHS segment reflecting a full year, an increase of $14 million in our PLK segment and an increase of $8 million in our BK segment, partially offset by a favorable FX Impact of $62 million. The increase in our TH segment was driven by increases in supply chain sales and sales to retailers, as well as commodity price increases.
Franchise and Property
Franchise and property revenues consist primarily of royalties earned on franchise sales, rents from real estate leased or subleased to franchisees, franchise fees, and other revenue. Franchise and property expenses consist primarily of depreciation of properties leased to franchisees, rental expense associated with properties subleased to franchisees, amortization of franchise agreements, and bad debt expense (recoveries).
During 2022, the increase in franchise and property revenues was driven by an increase of $102 million in our BK segment, an increase of $91 million in our TH segment, an increase of $81 million from our FHS segment reflecting a full year, and an increase of $28 million in our PLK segment, partially offset by an unfavorable FX Impact of $84 million. The increases were primarily driven by increases in royalties in our BK, TH and PLK segments and increases in rent in our TH segment, as a result of increases in system-wide sales.
During 2022, the increase in franchise and property expenses was driven by an increase of $26 million in our BK segment, an increase of $7 million in our TH segment, an increase of $6 million from our FHS segment reflecting a full year, and an increase of $2 million in our PLK segment, partially offset by a favorable FX Impact of $12 million. The increase in our BK segment was primarily related to bad debt expenses in the current year, inclusive of Russia, compared to bad debt recoveries in the prior year.
Advertising and Other Services
Advertising revenues and other services consist primarily of advertising contributions earned on franchise sales and are based on a percentage of sales reported by franchise restaurants and intended to fund advertising expenses. This line item also includes other services which consist primarily of fees from digital sales that partially offset expenses related to technology initiatives. Advertising expenses and other services consist primarily of expenses relating to marketing, advertising and promotion, including market research, production, advertising costs, sales promotions, social media campaigns, technology initiatives, depreciation and amortization and other related support functions for the respective brands. We generally manage advertising expenses to equal advertising revenues in the long term, however in some periods there may be a mismatch in the timing of revenues and expense or higher expenses due to our support initiatives behind the marketing programs.
During 2022, the increase in advertising revenues and other services was driven by an increase of $46 million in our TH segment, an increase of $31 million in our BK segment, an increase of $28 million in our PLK segment, and an increase of $13 million from our FHS segment reflecting a full year, partially offset by an unfavorable FX Impact of $11 million. The increases in our TH, BK and PLK segments were primarily driven by increases in system-wide sales.
34
Table of Contents
During 2022, the increase in advertising expenses and other services was driven by an increase of $52 million in our BK segment, an increase of $28 million in our PLK segment, an increase of $12 million in our TH segment, and an increase of $12 million in our FHS segment reflecting a full year, partially offset by a favorable FX Impact of $13 million. The increases in our BK, PLK and TH segments were driven primarily by increases in advertising revenues and other services. Additionally, our BK segment reflects increases in expenses related to technology initiatives and our TH segment reflects the non-recurrence of our support behind the prior year marketing program in Canada.
General and Administrative Expenses
Our general and administrative expenses were comprised of the following:
 	 		 		 		2022 vs. 2021		2021 vs. 2020
 	2022		2021		2020		$		%		$		%
 	 		 		 		Favorable / (Unfavorable)
TH Segment G&A	$	127 			$	109 			$	93 			$	(18)			(17)	%		$	(16)			(17)	%
BK Segment G&A	177 			162 			146 			(15)			(9)	%		(16)			(11)	%
PLK Segment G&A	65 			56 			49 			(9)			(16)	%		(7)			(14)	%
FHS Segment G&A	31 			1 			— 			(30)			NM		(1)			NM
Share-based compensation and non-cash incentive compensation expense	136 			102 			84 			(34)			(33)	%		(18)			(21)	%
Depreciation and amortization	25 			20 			19 			(5)			(25)	%		(1)			(5)	%
FHS Transaction costs	24 			18 			— 			(6)			(33)	%		(18)			NM
Corporate restructuring and tax advisory fees	46 			16 			16 			(30)			(188)	%		— 			— 	%
General and administrative expenses	$	631 			$	484 			$	407 			$	(147)			(30)	%		$	(77)			(19)	%
 
NM - Not meaningful
Segment general and administrative expenses (“Segment G&A”) consist primarily of salary and employee-related costs for non-restaurant employees, professional fees, information technology systems, and general overhead for our corporate offices. Segment G&A excludes share-based compensation and non-cash incentive compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, FHS Transaction costs and Corporate restructuring and tax advisory fees.
During 2022, the increases in Segment G&A for our TH, BK and PLK segments were primarily driven by higher salary and employee-related costs for non-restaurant employees, largely a result of hiring across a number of key areas including operations and franchising, and the increase in Segment G&A for our FHS segment is driven by a full year of results in 2022.
During 2022, the increase in share-based compensation and non-cash incentive compensation expense was primarily due to an increase in equity awards granted during 2022, shorter vesting periods for equity awards granted in 2022 and 2021 and the non-recurrence of equity award forfeitures during 2021.
In connection with the Firehouse Acquisition, we incurred certain non-recurring fees and expenses (“FHS Transaction costs”) consisting of professional fees, compensation related expenses and integration costs. We expect to incur additional FHS Transaction costs in early 2023.
In connection with certain transformational corporate restructuring initiatives that rationalize our structure and optimize cash movement within our structure, including services related to significant tax reform legislation, regulations and related restructuring initiatives, we incurred non-operating expenses primarily from professional advisory and consulting services (“Corporate restructuring and tax advisory fees”). The increase in Corporate restructuring and tax advisory fees in 2022 reflects increased costs associated with finalizing restructuring initiatives and execution of restructuring actions in 2022 compared to primarily planning activities in 2021. We expect to incur additional Corporate restructuring and tax advisory fees during 2023.

35
Table of Contents
(Income) Loss from Equity Method Investments
(Income) loss from equity method investments reflects our share of investee net income or loss, non-cash dilution gains or losses from changes in our ownership interests in equity method investees and impairment charges.
The change in (income) loss from equity method investments during 2022 was primarily driven by an increase in equity method investment net losses and an impairment charge that we recognized during the current year. For additional information on equity method impairment charges, see Note 7, “Equity Method Investments”, of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of our Annual Report.
Other Operating Expenses (Income), net
Our other operating expenses (income), net were comprised of the following:
2022		2021		2020
Net losses (gains) on disposal of assets, restaurant closures and refranchisings	$	4 			$	2 			$	6 	
Litigation settlements and reserves, net	11 			81 			7 	
Net losses (gains) on foreign exchange	(4)			(76)			100 	
Other, net	14 			— 			(8)	
Other operating expenses (income), net	$	25 			$	7 			$	105 	
 
Net losses (gains) on disposal of assets, restaurant closures, and refranchisings represent sales of properties and other costs related to restaurant closures and refranchisings. Gains and losses recognized in the current period may reflect certain costs related to closures and refranchisings that occurred in previous periods.
Litigation settlements and reserves, net primarily reflects accruals and payments made and proceeds received in connection with litigation and arbitration matters and other business disputes.
In early 2022, we entered into negotiations to resolve business disputes that arose during 2021 with counterparties to the master franchise agreements for Burger King and Popeyes in China. Based on these discussions, we paid approximately $100 million in 2022, $5 million and $72 million of which was recorded as Litigation settlements and reserves, net in 2022 and 2021, respectively. The majority of this amount related to Popeyes, resolved our disputes, and allowed us to move forward in the market with a new master franchisee. Additionally, pursuant to this agreement we and our partners have made equity contributions to the Burger King business in China.
Net losses (gains) on foreign exchange are primarily related to revaluation of foreign denominated assets and liabilities.
Interest Expense, net
2022		2021		2020
Interest expense, net	$	533 			$	505 			$	508 	
Weighted average interest rate on long-term debt	4.4 	%		4.2 	%		4.4 	%
 
During 2022, interest expense, net increased primarily due to an increase in long-term debt and an increase in the weighted average interest rate driven by increases in interest rates. There is a market expectation that U.S. benchmark rates will continue to increase in 2023, which would impact our floating rate debt.
Income Tax Expense
Our effective tax rate was (8.6)% in 2022 and 8.1% in 2021. The effective tax rate for 2022 includes a net decrease in tax reserves of $364 million related primarily to expiring statutes of limitations for certain prior tax years which decreased the effective tax rate by 26.7%. The effective tax rate for 2021 includes a net decrease in tax reserves of $101 million related primarily to expiring statutes of limitations for certain prior tax years which decreased the effective tax rate by 7.4%. The effective tax rates for 2022 and 2021 also reflect the mix of income from multiple tax jurisdictions, and the impact of internal financing arrangements and structural changes.

36
Table of Contents
Net Income
We reported net income of $1,482 million for 2022 compared to net income of $1,253 million for 2021. The increase in net income is primarily due to an income tax benefit of $117 million in the current year compared to an income tax expense of $110 million in the prior year, a $76 million increase in TH segment income, a $54 million increase in FHS segment income reflecting a full year, a $14 million increase in PLK segment income, the non-recurrence of $11 million of loss on early extinguishment of debt, and an $11 million decrease in depreciation and amortization. These factors were partially offset by a $34 million increase in share-based compensation and non-cash incentive compensation expense, a $34 million unfavorable change from the impact of equity method investments, a $30 million increase in Corporate restructuring and tax advisory fees, a $28 million increase in interest expense, net, an $18 million increase in other operating expenses (income), net, a $14 million decrease in BK segment income, and an increase of $6 million of FHS Transaction costs. Amounts above include a total unfavorable FX Impact to net income of $82 million.
Non-GAAP Reconciliations
The table below contains information regarding EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, which are non-GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures do not have a standardized meaning under U.S. GAAP and may differ from similar captioned measures of other companies in our industry. We believe that these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors in assessing our operating performance, as they provide them with the same tools that management uses to evaluate our performance and are responsive to questions we receive from both investors and analysts. By disclosing these non-GAAP measures, we intend to provide investors with a consistent comparison of our operating results and trends for the periods presented. EBITDA is defined as earnings (net income or loss) before interest expense, net, loss on early extinguishment of debt, income tax (benefit) expense, and depreciation and amortization and is used by management to measure operating performance of the business. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA excluding (i) the non-cash impact of share-based compensation and non-cash incentive compensation expense, (ii) (income) loss from equity method investments, net of cash distributions received from equity method investments, (iii) other operating expenses (income), net and, (iv) income/expenses from non-recurring projects and non-operating activities. For the periods referenced, income/expenses from non-recurring projects and non-operating activities included (i) non-recurring fees and expense incurred in connection with the Firehouse Acquisition consisting of professional fees, compensation related expenses and integration costs; and (ii) non-operating costs from professional advisory and consulting services associated with certain transformational corporate restructuring initiatives that rationalize our structure and optimize cash movements, including services related to significant tax reform legislation, regulations and related restructuring initiatives. Management believes that these types of expenses are either not related to our underlying profitability drivers or not likely to re-occur in the foreseeable future and the varied timing, size and nature of these projects may cause volatility in our results unrelated to the performance of our core business that does not reflect trends of our core operations.

37
Table of Contents
Adjusted EBITDA is used by management to measure operating performance of the business, excluding these non-cash and other specifically identified items that management believes are not relevant to management’s assessment of our operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA, as defined above, also represents our measure of segment income for each of our four operating segments.

2022		2021		2020		2022 vs. 2021		2021 vs. 2020
 	 		 		 		Favorable / (Unfavorable)
Net income	$	1,482 			$	1,253 			$	750 			$	229 			$	503 	
Income tax (benefit) expense	(117)			110 			66 			227 			(44)	
Loss on early extinguishment of debt	— 			11 			98 			11 			87 	
Interest expense, net	533 			505 			508 			(28)			3 	
Income from operations	1,898 			1,879 			1,422 			19 			457 	
Depreciation and amortization	190 			201 			189 			11 			(12)	
EBITDA	2,088 			2,080 			1,611 			8 			469 	
Share-based compensation and non-cash incentive compensation expense	136 			102 			84 			(34)			(18)	
FHS Transaction costs	24 			18 			— 			(6)			(18)	
Corporate restructuring and tax advisory fees	46 			16 			16 			(30)			— 	
Impact of equity method investments (a)	59 			25 			48 			(34)			23 	
Other operating expenses (income), net	25 			7 			105 			(18)			98 	
Adjusted EBITDA	$	2,378 			$	2,248 			$	1,864 			$	130 			$	384 	
Segment income:									
TH	$	1,073 			$	997 			$	823 			$	76 			$	174 	
BK	1,007 			1,021 			823 			(14)			198 	
PLK	242 			228 			218 			14 			10 	
FHS	56 			2 			— 			54 			2 	
Adjusted EBITDA	$	2,378 			$	2,248 			$	1,864 			$	130 			$	384 	
 
(a)Represents (i) (income) loss from equity method investments and (ii) cash distributions received from our equity method investments. Cash distributions received from our equity method investments are included in segment income.
The increase in Adjusted EBITDA for 2022 was driven primarily by an increase in TH segment income and the inclusion of a full year of FHS in 2022 compared to the period December 15 through December 26 in the prior year. The increase in segment income for our TH segment was driven by the increase in system-wide sales and by advertising expenses exceeding advertising revenues in the current year to a lesser extent than in the prior year driven by our support behind the marketing program in Canada in the prior year, partially offset by an increase in TH Segment G&A and lower cash distributions received from equity method investments. The increase in Adjusted EBITDA includes an unfavorable FX Impact of $85 million.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Our primary sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash generated by operations and borrowings available under our Revolving Credit Facility (as defined below). We have used, and may in the future use, our liquidity to make required interest and/or principal payments, to repurchase our common shares, to repurchase Class B exchangeable limited partnership units of Partnership (“Partnership exchangeable units”), to voluntarily prepay and repurchase our or one of our affiliate’s outstanding debt, to fund acquisitions such as the Firehouse Acquisition and other investing activities, such as capital expenditures and joint ventures, and to pay dividends on our common shares and make distributions on the Partnership exchangeable units. As a result of our borrowings, we are highly leveraged. Our liquidity requirements are significant, primarily due to debt service requirements.
38
Table of Contents
At December 31, 2022, we had cash and cash equivalents of $1,178 million and borrowing availability of $998 million under our senior secured revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”). Based on our current level of operations and available cash, we believe our cash flow from operations, combined with our availability under our Revolving Credit Facility, will provide sufficient liquidity to fund our current obligations, debt service requirements and capital spending over the next twelve months.
In September 2022, Burger King shared the details of its “Reclaim the Flame” plan to accelerate sales growth and drive franchisee profitability. As part of the plan, we will enhance ongoing franchisee investments by investing $400 million over the next two years, comprising $150 million in advertising and digital investments (“Fuel the Flame”) and $250 million in high-quality remodels and relocations, restaurant technology, kitchen equipment, and building enhancements (“Royal Reset”). As of December 31, 2022, we have funded a total of $13 million toward the Fuel the Flame investment and $17 million toward our Royal Reset investment.
On July 28, 2021, our board of directors approved a share repurchase authorization that allows us to purchase up to $1,000 million of our common shares until August 10, 2023. As a public company operating in Canada, we must file a notice of intention to make a normal course issuer bid with the stock exchanges we are listed on and receive their approval before proceeding with a share repurchase. On August 12, 2022, we announced that the Toronto Stock Exchange (the “TSX”) had accepted the notice of our intention to renew the normal course issuer bid. Under this normal course issuer bid, we are permitted to repurchase up to 30,254,374 common shares for the 12-month period commencing on August 17, 2022 and ending on August 16, 2023, or earlier if we complete the repurchases prior to such date. Share repurchases under the normal course issuer bid will be made through the facilities of the TSX, the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) and/or other exchanges and alternative Canadian or foreign trading systems, if eligible, or by such other means as may be permitted by the TSX and/or the NYSE under applicable law. Shareholders may obtain a copy of the prior notice, free of charge, by contacting us. During 2022, we repurchased and cancelled 6,101,364 RBI common shares on the open market for $326 million and during 2021 we repurchased and cancelled 9,247,648 RBI common shares on the open market for $551 million and as of December 31, 2022 had $123 million remaining under the authorization and 30,253,822 shares remaining under the normal course issuer bid. Repurchases under the Company’s authorization will be made in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions.
We generally provide applicable deferred taxes based on the tax liability or withholding taxes that would be due upon repatriation of cash associated with unremitted earnings. We will continue to monitor our plans for such cash and related foreign earnings but our expectation is to continue to provide taxes on unremitted earnings that we expect to distribute.
Debt Instruments and Debt Service Requirements
As of December 31, 2022, our long-term debt consists primarily of borrowings under our Credit Facilities (as defined below), amounts outstanding under our 3.875% First Lien Senior Notes due 2028, 5.75% First Lien Senior Notes due 2025, 3.50% First Lien Senior Notes due 2029, 4.375% Second Lien Senior Notes due 2028, 4.00% Second Lien Senior Notes due 2030 (together, the “Senior Notes”), TH Facility, RE Facility (each as defined below), and obligations under finance leases. Two of our subsidiaries (the “Borrowers”) have issued the Credit Facilities and Senior Notes. For further information about our long-term debt, see Note 9, “Long Term Debt,” of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of our Annual Report.
Credit Facilities
As of December 31, 2022, there was $6,440 million outstanding principal amount under our senior secured term loan facilities (the “Term Loan Facilities” and together with the Revolving Credit Facility, the “Credit Facilities”) with a weighted average interest rate of 6.00%. The interest rate applicable to borrowings under our Term Loan A and Revolving Credit Facility is, at our option, either (i) a base rate, subject to a floor of 1.00%, plus an applicable margin varying from 0.00% to 0.50%, or (ii) Adjusted Term SOFR (“Secured Overnight Financing Rate”) (Adjusted Term SOFR is calculated as Term SOFR plus a 0.10% adjustment), subject to a floor of 0.00%, plus an applicable margin varying between 0.75% to 1.50%, in each case, determined by reference to a net first lien leverage based pricing grid. The interest rate applicable to borrowings under our Term Loan B is, at our option, either (i) a base rate, subject to a floor of 1.00%, plus an applicable margin of 0.75% or (ii) a Eurocurrency rate, subject to a floor of 0.00%, plus an applicable margin of 1.75%.
Based on the amounts outstanding under the Term Loan Facilities and LIBOR/SOFR as of December 31, 2022, subject to a floor of 0.00%, required debt service for the next twelve months is estimated to be approximately $394 million in interest payments and $85 million in principal payments. In addition, based on LIBOR as of December 31, 2022, net cash settlements that we expect to receive on our $4,000 million interest rate swaps are estimated to be approximately $103 million for the next twelve months. The Term Loan A matures on December 13, 2026 and the Term Loan B matures on November 19, 2026, and
39
Table of Contents
we may prepay the Term Loan Facilities in whole or in part at any time. Additionally, subject to certain exceptions, the Term Loan Facilities may be subject to mandatory prepayments using (i) proceeds from non-ordinary course asset dispositions, (ii) proceeds from certain incurrences of debt or (iii) a portion of our annual excess cash flows based upon certain leverage ratios.
As of December 31, 2022, we had no amounts outstanding under our Revolving Credit Facility (including revolving loans, swingline loans and letters of credit), had $2 million of letters of credit issued against the Revolving Credit Facility, and our borrowing availability was $998 million. Funds available under the Revolving Credit Facility may be used to repay other debt, finance debt or share repurchases, fund acquisitions or capital expenditures, and for other general corporate purposes. We have a $125 million letter of credit sublimit as part of the Revolving Credit Facility, which reduces our borrowing availability thereunder by the cumulative amount of outstanding letters of credit. We are also required to pay (i) letters of credit fees on the aggregate face amounts of outstanding letters of credit plus a fronting fee to the issuing bank and (ii) administration fees. The interest rate applicable to amounts drawn under each letter of credit ranges from 0.75% to 1.50%, depending on our net first lien leverage ratio.
Obligations under the Credit Facilities are guaranteed on a senior secured basis, jointly and severally, by the direct parent company of one of the Borrowers and substantially all of its Canadian and U.S. subsidiaries, including The TDL Group Corp., Burger King Company LLC, Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen, Inc., FRG, LLC and substantially all of their respective Canadian and U.S. subsidiaries (the “Credit Guarantors”). Amounts borrowed under the Credit Facilities are secured on a first priority basis by a perfected security interest in substantially all of the present and future property (subject to certain exceptions) of each Borrower and Credit Guarantor.
Senior Notes
The Borrowers entered into indentures in connection with the issuance of the following senior notes (collectively the “Senior Notes Indentures”):
Amount (in millions)	Interest Rate	Lien Priority	Due Date
$1,550	3.875%	First lien	January 15, 2028
$500	5.75%	First lien	April 15, 2025
$750	3.50%	First lien	February 15, 2029
$750	4.375%	Second lien	January 15, 2028
$2,900	4.00%	Second lien	October 15, 2030
 
No principal payments are due until maturity and interest is paid semi-annually.
The Borrowers may redeem a series of senior notes, in whole or in part, at any time at the redemption prices set forth in the applicable Senior Notes Indenture; provided that if the redemption is prior to February 15, 2024 for the 3.50% First Lien Senior Notes, and October 15, 2025 for the 4.00% Second Lien Senior Notes, it will instead be at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount redeemed plus a “make-whole” premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the redemption date. The Senior Notes Indentures also contain redemption provisions related to tender offers, change of control and equity offerings, among others.
Based on the amounts outstanding at December 31, 2022, required debt service for the next twelve months on all of the senior notes outstanding is approximately $264 million in interest payments.
TH Facility and RE Facility
One of our subsidiaries entered into a non-revolving delayed drawdown term credit facility in a total aggregate principal amount of C$225 million with a maturity date of October 4, 2025 (the “TH Facility”). The interest rate applicable to the TH Facility is the Canadian Bankers’ Acceptance rate plus an applicable margin equal to 1.40% or the Prime Rate plus an applicable margin equal to 0.40%, at our option. Obligations under the TH Facility are guaranteed by four of our subsidiaries, and amounts borrowed under the TH Facility are secured by certain parcels of real estate. As of December 31, 2022, we had approximately C$203 million outstanding under the TH Facility with a weighted average interest rate of 6.07%.
One of our subsidiaries entered into a non-revolving delayed drawdown term credit facility in a total aggregate principal amount of $50 million with a maturity date of October 12, 2028 (the “RE Facility”). The interest rate applicable to the RE Facility is, at our option, either (i) a base rate, subject to a floor of 0.50%, plus an applicable margin of 0.50% or (ii) Adjusted
40
Table of Contents
Term SOFR (Adjusted Term SOFR is calculated as Term SOFR plus a margin based on duration), subject to a floor of 0.00%, plus an applicable margin of 1.50%. Obligations under the RE Facility are guaranteed by four of our subsidiaries, and amounts borrowed under the RE Facility are secured by certain parcels of real estate. As of December 31, 2022, we had approximately $2 million outstanding under the RE Facility with a weighted average interest rate of 5.97%.
Based on the amounts outstanding under the TH Facility as of December 31, 2022, required debt service for the next twelve months is estimated to be approximately $9 million in interest payments and $10 million in principal payments. Based on the amounts outstanding under the RE Facility as of December 31, 2022, required debt service for the next twelve months is not material.
Restrictions and Covenants
Our Credit Facilities and the Senior Notes Indentures contain a number of customary affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, limit or restrict our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to: incur additional indebtedness; incur liens; engage in mergers, consolidations, liquidations and dissolutions; sell assets; pay dividends and make other payments in respect of capital stock; make investments, loans and advances; pay or modify the terms of certain indebtedness; and engage in certain transactions with affiliates. Under the Credit Facilities, the Borrowers are not permitted to exceed a net first lien senior secured leverage ratio of 6.50 to 1.00 when, as of the end of any fiscal quarter beginning with the first quarter of 2020, any amounts are outstanding under the Term Loan A and/or outstanding revolving loans, swingline loans and certain letters of credit exceed 30.0% of the commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility.
The restrictions under the Credit Facilities and the Senior Notes Indentures have resulted in substantially all of our consolidated assets being restricted.
As of December 31, 2022, we were in compliance with all applicable financial debt covenants under the Credit Facilities, the TH Facility, RE Facility and the Senior Notes Indentures, and there were no limitations on our ability to draw on the remaining availability under our Revolving Credit Facility.
Cash Dividends
On January 4, 2023, we paid a dividend of $0.54 per common share and Partnership made a distribution in respect of each Partnership exchangeable unit in the amount of $0.54 per Partnership exchangeable unit.
On February 14, 2023, we announced that the board of directors had declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.55 per common share for the first quarter of 2023, payable on April 5, 2023 to common shareholders of record on March 22, 2023. Partnership will also make a distribution in respect of each Partnership exchangeable unit in the amount of $0.55 per Partnership exchangeable unit, and the record date and payment date for distributions on Partnership exchangeable units are the same as the record date and payment date set forth above.
We are targeting a total of $2.20 in declared dividends per common share and distributions in respect of each Partnership exchangeable unit for 2023.
Because we are a holding company, our ability to pay cash dividends on our common shares may be limited by restrictions under our debt agreements. Although we do not have a formal dividend policy, our board of directors may, subject to compliance with the covenants contained in our debt agreements and other considerations, determine to pay dividends in the future.
Outstanding Security Data
As of February 14, 2023, we had outstanding 307,947,651 common shares and one special voting share. The special voting share is held by a trustee, entitling the trustee to that number of votes on matters on which holders of common shares are entitled to vote equal to the number of Partnership exchangeable units outstanding. The trustee is required to cast such votes in accordance with voting instructions provided by holders of Partnership exchangeable units. At any shareholder meeting of the Company, holders of our common shares vote together as a single class with the special voting share except as otherwise provided by law. For information on our share-based compensation and our outstanding equity awards, see Note 14 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of our Annual Report.
41
Table of Contents
There were 142,996,640 Partnership exchangeable units outstanding as of February 14, 2023. The holders of Partnership exchangeable units have the right to require Partnership to exchange all or any portion of such holder’s Partnership exchangeable units for our common shares at a ratio of one share for each Partnership exchangeable unit, subject to our right as the general partner of Partnership to determine to settle any such exchange for a cash payment in lieu of our common shares.
Comparative Cash Flows
Operating Activities
Cash provided by operating activities was $1,490 million in 2022, compared to $1,726 million in 2021. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was driven by a decrease in cash provided by working capital, an increase in interest payments, an increase in income tax payments, and a decrease in BK segment income, partially offset by increases in TH, FHS and PLK segment income.
Investing Activities
Cash used for investing activities was $64 million in 2022, compared to $1,103 million in 2021. The change in cash used for investing activities was primarily driven by the Firehouse Subs acquisition in 2021, partially offset by an increase in proceeds from derivatives.
Financing Activities
Cash used for financing activities was $1,307 million in 2022, compared to $1,093 million in 2021. The change in cash used for financing activities was driven primarily by a decrease in proceeds from the issuance of debt and a decrease in proceeds from stock option exercises. These factors were partially offset by a decrease in repayments of debt and finance leases, a decrease in repurchases of RBI common shares, proceeds from derivatives in the current year compared to payments from derivatives in the prior year, and proceeds from issuance of RBI common shares in the current year.
Contractual Obligations and Commitments
Our significant contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2022 include:
Debt Obligations and Interest Payments — Refer to Note 9, “Long-Term Debt,” of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of our Annual Report for further information on our obligations and the timing of expected payments. Future interest payments on our outstanding debt as of December 31, 2022 total $3,138 million, with $669 million due within the next twelve months. We have estimated our interest payments through the maturity of our Credit Facilities based on LIBOR and SOFR as of December 31, 2022.
Operating and Finance Leases — Refer to Note 10, “Leases,” of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of our Annual Report for further information on our obligations and the timing of expected payments.
Purchase Commitments — Purchase obligations include commitments to purchase green coffee, certain food ingredients, advertising expenditures, and obligations related to information technology and service agreements. We have purchase obligations of approximately $567 million at December 31, 2022, with approximately $536 million due within the next 12 months.
Unrecognized Tax Benefit — Our contractual obligations and commitments include approximately $166 million of gross liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits and accrued interest and penalties relating to various tax positions we have taken. These liabilities may increase or decrease over time primarily as a result of tax examinations, and given the status of the examinations, we cannot reliably estimate the period of any cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. For additional information on unrecognized tax benefits, see Note 11, “Income Taxes”, of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of our Annual Report.
Other Commercial Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
From time to time, we enter into agreements under which we guarantee loans made by third parties to qualified franchisees. As of December 31, 2022, no material amounts are outstanding under these guarantees.
42
Table of Contents
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
This discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on our audited consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires our management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses, as well as related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis and we base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions we deem reasonable to the situation. These estimates and assumptions form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. As future events and their effects cannot be determined with precision, actual results could differ significantly from these estimates. Changes in our estimates could materially impact our results of operations and financial condition in any particular period.
We consider our critical accounting policies and estimates to be as follows based on the high degree of judgment or complexity in their application:
Business Combinations
The Firehouse Acquisition was accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting, or acquisition accounting, in accordance with ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations. The acquisition method of accounting involves the allocation of the purchase price to the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. This allocation process involves the use of estimates and assumptions made in connection with estimating the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed including cash flows expected to be derived from the use of the asset, the timing of such cash flows, the remaining useful life of assets and applicable discount rates. Acquisition accounting allows for up to one year to obtain the information necessary to finalize the fair value of all assets acquired and liabilities assumed at December 15, 2021. As of December 31, 2022, we have recorded the final allocation of consideration to net tangible and intangible assets acquired.
In the event that actual results vary from the estimates or assumptions used in the valuation or allocation process, we may be required to record an impairment charge or an increase in depreciation or amortization in future periods, or both.
See Note 3, “Firehouse Acquisition,” of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of our Annual Report for additional information about accounting for the Firehouse Acquisition.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets Not Subject to Amortization
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in acquisitions. Our indefinite-lived intangible assets consist of the Tim Hortons brand, the Burger King brand, the Popeyes brand and the Firehouse Subs brand (each a “Brand” and together, the “Brands”). Goodwill and the Brands are tested for impairment at least annually as of October 1 of each year and more often if an event occurs or circumstances change, which indicate impairment might exist. Our annual impairment tests of goodwill and the Brands may be completed through qualitative assessments. We may elect to bypass the qualitative assessment and proceed directly to a quantitative impairment test, for any reporting unit or Brand, in any period. We can resume the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit or Brand in any subsequent period.
Under a qualitative approach, our impairment review for goodwill consists of an assessment of whether it is more-likely-than-not that a reporting unit’s fair value is less than its carrying amount. If we elect to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting units, or if a qualitative assessment indicates it is more-likely-than-not that the estimated carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test that requires us to estimate the fair value of the reporting unit. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we will measure any goodwill impairment loss as the amount by which the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. We use an income approach and a market approach, when available, to estimate a reporting unit’s fair value, which discounts the reporting unit’s projected cash flows using a discount rate we determine from a market participant's perspective under the income approach or utilizing similar publicly traded companies as guidelines for determining fair value under the market approach. We make significant assumptions when estimating a reporting unit’s projected cash flows, including revenue, driven primarily by net restaurant growth, comparable sales growth and average royalty rates, general and administrative expenses, capital expenditures and income tax rates.
43
Table of Contents
Under a qualitative approach, our impairment review for the Brands consists of an assessment of whether it is more-likely-than-not that a Brand’s fair value is less than its carrying amount. If we elect to bypass the qualitative assessment for any of our Brands, or if a qualitative assessment indicates it is more-likely-than-not that the estimated carrying value of a Brand exceeds its fair value, we estimate the fair value of the Brand and compare it to its carrying amount. If the carrying amount exceeds fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. We use an income approach to estimate a Brand’s fair value, which discounts the projected Brand-related cash flows using a discount rate we determine from a market participant's perspective. We make significant assumptions when estimating Brand-related cash flows, including system-wide sales, driven by net restaurant growth and comparable sales growth, average royalty rates, brand maintenance costs and income tax rates.
We completed our impairment reviews for goodwill and the Brands as of October 1, 2022, 2021 and 2020 and no impairment resulted. The estimates and assumptions we use to estimate fair values when performing quantitative assessments are highly subjective judgments based on our experience and knowledge of our operations. Significant changes in the assumptions used in our analysis could result in an impairment charge related to goodwill or the Brands. Circumstances that could result in changes to future estimates and assumptions include, but are not limited to, expectations of lower system-wide sales growth, which can be caused by a variety of factors, increases in income tax rates and increases in discount rates.
Long-lived Assets
Long-lived assets (including intangible assets subject to amortization and lease right-of-use assets) are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Long-lived assets are grouped for recognition and measurement of impairment at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets.
The impairment test for long-lived assets requires us to assess the recoverability of our long-lived assets by comparing their net carrying value to the sum of undiscounted estimated future cash flows directly associated with and arising from our use and eventual disposition of the assets. If the net carrying value of a group of long-lived assets exceeds the sum of related undiscounted estimated future cash flows, we would be required to record an impairment charge equal to the excess, if any, of net carrying value over fair value.
When assessing the recoverability of our long-lived assets, we make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors. Some of these assumptions involve a high degree of judgment and also bear a significant impact on the assessment conclusions. Included among these assumptions are estimating undiscounted future cash flows, including the projection of rental income, capital requirements for maintaining property and residual values of asset groups. We formulate estimates from historical experience and assumptions of future performance, based on business plans and forecasts, recent economic and business trends, and competitive conditions. In the event that our estimates or related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record an impairment charge.
Accounting for Income Taxes
We record income tax liabilities utilizing known obligations and estimates of potential obligations. A deferred tax asset or liability is recognized whenever there are future tax effects from existing temporary differences and operating loss and tax credit carry-forwards. When considered necessary, we record a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the balance that is more-likely-than-not to be realized. We must make estimates and judgments on future taxable income, considering feasible tax planning strategies and taking into account existing facts and circumstances, to determine the proper valuation allowance. When we determine that deferred tax assets could be realized in greater or lesser amounts than recorded, the asset balance and income statement reflect the change in the period such determination is made. Due to changes in facts and circumstances and the estimates and judgments that are involved in determining the proper valuation allowance, differences between actual future events and prior estimates and judgments could result in adjustments to this valuation allowance.
On December 28, 2021, the U.S. Treasury Department released final regulations (T.D. 9959, published in the Federal Register on January 4, 2022) restricting the ability to credit certain foreign taxes, applicable prospectively starting January 1, 2022. Due to these new regulations, we released a portion of the valuation allowance on our foreign tax credit carryforwards during the current year. Based on our current analysis, we do not expect these regulations to have a material, ongoing impact as we anticipate being in an excess credit position prospectively. On November 18, 2022, the U.S. Treasury Department released proposed regulations including additional guidance with respect to the reattribution asset rule for purposes of allocating and apportioning foreign taxes, the cost recovery requirement, and the attribution rule for withholding taxes on royalty payments. We will continue to evaluate the potential effect of these proposed regulations as further guidance becomes available.
44
Table of Contents
We file income tax returns, including returns for our subsidiaries, with federal, provincial, state, local and foreign jurisdictions. We are subject to routine examination by taxing authorities in these jurisdictions. We apply a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions. The first step is to evaluate available evidence to determine if it appears more-likely-than-not that an uncertain tax position will be sustained on an audit by a taxing authority, based solely on the technical merits of the tax position. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon settling the uncertain tax position.
Although we believe we have adequately accounted for our uncertain tax positions, from time to time, audits result in proposed assessments where the ultimate resolution may result in us owing additional taxes. We adjust our uncertain tax positions in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the completion of a tax audit, expiration of a statute of limitations, the refinement of an estimate, and interest accruals associated with uncertain tax positions until they are resolved. We believe that our tax positions comply with applicable tax law and that we have adequately provided for these matters. However, to the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made.
We are generally permanently reinvested on any potential outside basis differences except for unremitted earnings and profits and thus do not record a deferred tax liability for such outside basis differences. To the extent of unremitted earnings and profits, we generally review various factors including, but not limited to, forecasts and budgets of financial needs of cash for working capital, liquidity and expected cash requirements to fund our various obligations and record deferred taxes to the extent we expect to distribute. We will continue to monitor available evidence and our plans for foreign earnings and expect to continue to provide any applicable deferred taxes based on the tax liability or withholding taxes that would be due upon repatriation of amounts not considered permanently reinvested.
We use an estimate of the annual effective income tax rate at each interim period based on the facts and circumstances available at that time, while the actual effective income tax rate is calculated at year-end.
See Note 11, “Income Taxes,” of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of our Annual Report for additional information about accounting for income taxes.

New Accounting Pronouncements
See Note 2, “Significant Accounting Policies – New Accounting Pronouncements,” of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of our Annual Report for additional information about new accounting pronouncements.
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
Market Risk
We are exposed to market risks associated with currency exchange rates, interest rates, commodity prices and inflation. In the normal course of business and in accordance with our policies, we manage these risks through a variety of strategies, which may include the use of derivative financial instruments to hedge our underlying exposures. Our policies prohibit the use of derivative instruments for speculative purposes, and we have procedures in place to monitor and control their use.
Currency Exchange Risk
We report our results in U.S. dollars, which is our reporting currency. The operations of each of TH, BK, PLK and FHS that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar are impacted by fluctuations in currency exchange rates and changes in currency regulations. The majority of TH’s operations, income, revenues, expenses and cash flows are denominated in Canadian dollars, which we translate to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. Royalty payments from BK franchisees in our European markets and in certain other countries are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Furthermore, franchise royalties from each of TH’s, BK’s, PLK's and FHS's international franchisees are calculated based on local currency sales; consequently, franchise revenues are still impacted by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Each of their respective revenues and expenses are translated using the average rates during the period in which they are recognized and are impacted by changes in currency exchange rates.
45
Table of Contents
We have numerous investments in our foreign subsidiaries, the net assets of which are exposed to volatility in foreign currency exchange rates. We have entered into cross-currency rate swaps to hedge a portion of our net investment in such foreign operations against adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. We designated cross-currency rate swaps with a notional value of $5,000 million between Canadian dollar and U.S. dollar and cross-currency rate swaps with a notional value of $2,250 million between the Euro and U.S. dollar, as net investment hedges of a portion of our equity in foreign operations in those currencies. The fair value of the cross-currency rate swaps is calculated each period with changes in the fair value of these instruments reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (“AOCI”) to economically offset the change in the value of the net investment in these designated foreign operations driven by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The net fair value of these derivative instruments was an asset of $44 million as of December 31, 2022. The net unrealized gains, net of tax, related to these derivative instruments included in AOCI totaled $50 million as of December 31, 2022. Such amounts will remain in AOCI until the complete or substantially complete liquidation of our investment in the underlying foreign operations.
We use forward currency contracts to manage the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations on U.S. dollar purchases and payments, such as coffee purchases, made by our TH Canadian operations. However, for a variety of reasons, we do not hedge our revenue exposure in other currencies. Therefore, we are exposed to volatility in those other currencies, and this volatility may differ from period to period. As a result, the foreign currency impact on our operating results for one period may not be indicative of future results.
During 2022, income from operations would have decreased or increased approximately $190 million if all foreign currencies uniformly weakened or strengthened 10% relative to the U.S. dollar, holding other variables constant, including sales volumes. The effect of a uniform movement of all currencies by 10% is provided to illustrate a hypothetical scenario and related effect on operating income. Actual results will differ as foreign currencies may move in uniform or different directions and in different magnitudes.
Interest Rate Risk
We are exposed to changes in interest rates related to our Term Loan Facilities and Revolving Credit Facility, which bear interest at LIBOR and SOFR plus a spread, subject to a LIBOR and SOFR floor. Generally, interest rate changes could impact the amount of our interest paid and, therefore, our future earnings and cash flows, assuming other factors are held constant. To mitigate the impact of changes in LIBOR on interest expense for a portion of our variable rate debt, we have entered into interest rate swaps. We account for these derivatives as cash flow hedges, and as such, the unrealized changes in market value are recorded in AOCI and reclassified into earnings during the period in which the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. At December 31, 2022, we had a series of receive-variable, pay-fixed interest rate swaps to hedge the variability in the interest payments on $4,000 million of our Term Loan Facilities. The total notional value of these interest rate swaps is $4,000 million, of which $3,500 million expire on October 31, 2028 and $500 million expire on September 30, 2026.
Based on the portion of our variable rate debt balance in excess of the notional amount of the interest rate swaps and LIBOR and SOFR as of December 31, 2022, a hypothetical 1.00% increase in LIBOR and SOFR would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $24 million.
While the discontinuation of LIBOR after June 2023 will impact our Term Loan B facility and our interest rate swap agreements, we do not anticipate the transition to an alternate reference rate will have a material impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
Commodity Price Risk
We purchase certain products, which are subject to price volatility that is caused by weather, market conditions and other factors that are not considered predictable or within our control. However, in our TH business, we employ various purchasing and pricing contract techniques, such as setting fixed prices for periods of up to one year with suppliers, in an effort to minimize volatility of certain of these commodities. Given that we purchase a significant amount of green coffee, we typically have purchase commitments fixing the price for a minimum of six to twelve months depending upon prevailing market conditions. We also typically hedge against the risk of foreign exchange on green coffee prices.
We occasionally take forward pricing positions through our suppliers to manage commodity prices. As a result, we purchase commodities and other products at market prices, which fluctuate on a daily basis and may differ between different geographic regions, where local regulations may affect the volatility of commodity prices.
46
Table of Contents
We do not make use of financial instruments to hedge commodity prices. As we make purchases beyond our current commitments, we may be subject to higher commodity prices depending upon prevailing market conditions at such time. Generally, increases and decreases in commodity costs are largely passed through to franchisee owners, resulting in higher or lower revenues and higher or lower costs of sales from our business. These changes may impact percentage margins as many of these products are typically priced based on a fixed-dollar mark-up. We and our franchisees have some ability to increase product pricing to offset a rise in commodity prices, subject to acceptance by franchisees and guests.
Impact of Inflation
While inflation did not have a material impact on our operations in 2021 or 2020, inflationary pressures in 2022 were significant and may continue going forward. Further significant increases in inflation could affect the global, Canadian and U.S. economies and could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If several of the various costs in our business experience inflation at the same time, such as commodity price increases beyond our ability to control and increased labor costs, we and our franchisees may not be able to adjust prices to sufficiently offset the effect of the various cost increases without negatively impacting consumer demand.
Disclosures Regarding Partnership Pursuant to Canadian Exemptive Relief
We are the sole general partner of Partnership. To address certain disclosure conditions to the exemptive relief that Partnership received from the Canadian securities regulatory authorities, we are providing a summary of certain terms of the Partnership exchangeable units. This summary is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by the complete text of the Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement, dated December 11, 2014, between the Company, 8997896 Canada Inc. and each person who is admitted as a Limited Partner in accordance with the terms of the agreement (the “partnership agreement”) and the Voting Trust Agreement, dated December 12, 2014, between the Company, Partnership and Computershare Trust Company of Canada (the “voting trust agreement”), copies of which are available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and at www.sec.gov. For a description of our common shares, see Exhibit 4.1 to this Annual Report.
The Partnership Exchangeable Units
The capital of Partnership consists of three classes of units: the Partnership Class A common units, the Partnership preferred units and the Partnership exchangeable units. Our interest, as the sole general partner of Partnership, is represented by Class A common units and preferred units. The interests of the limited partners is represented by the Partnership exchangeable units.
Summary of Economic and Voting Rights
The Partnership exchangeable units are intended to provide economic rights that are substantially equivalent, and voting rights with respect to us that are equivalent, to the corresponding rights afforded to holders of our common shares. Under the terms of the partnership agreement, the rights, privileges, restrictions and conditions attaching to the Partnership exchangeable units include the following:
 
•The Partnership exchangeable units are exchangeable at any time, at the option of the holder (the “exchange right”), on a one-for-one basis for our common shares (the “exchanged shares”), subject to our right as the general partner (subject to the approval of the conflicts committee in certain circumstances) to determine to settle any such exchange for a cash payment in lieu of our common shares. If we elect to make a cash payment in lieu of issuing common shares, the amount of the cash payment will be the weighted average trading price of the common shares on the NYSE for the 20 consecutive trading days ending on the last business day prior to the exchange date (the “exchangeable units cash amount”). Written notice of the determination of the form of consideration shall be given to the holder of the Partnership exchangeable units exercising the exchange right no later than ten business days prior to the exchange date.
•If a dividend or distribution has been declared and is payable in respect of our common shares, Partnership will make a distribution in respect of each Partnership exchangeable unit in an amount equal to the dividend or distribution in respect of a common share. The record date and payment date for distributions on the Partnership exchangeable units will be the same as the relevant record date and payment date for the dividends or distributions on our common shares.
•If we issue any common shares in the form of a dividend or distribution on our common shares, Partnership will issue to each holder of Partnership exchangeable units, in respect of each exchangeable unit held by such holder, a number of Partnership exchangeable units equal to the number of common shares issued in respect of each common share.
47
Table of Contents
•If we issue or distribute rights, options or warrants or other securities or assets to all or substantially all of the holders of our common shares, Partnership is required to make a corresponding distribution to holders of the Partnership exchangeable units.
•No subdivision or combination of our outstanding common shares is permitted unless a corresponding subdivision or combination of Partnership exchangeable units is made.
•We and our board of directors are prohibited from proposing or recommending an offer for our common shares or for the Partnership exchangeable units unless the holders of the Partnership exchangeable units and the holders of common shares are entitled to participate to the same extent and on an equitably equivalent basis.
•Upon a dissolution and liquidation of Partnership, if Partnership exchangeable units remain outstanding and have not been exchanged for our common shares, then the distribution of the assets of Partnership between holders of our common shares and holders of Partnership exchangeable units will be made on a pro rata basis based on the numbers of common shares and Partnership exchangeable units outstanding. Assets distributable to holders of Partnership exchangeable units will be distributed directly to such holders. Assets distributable in respect of our common shares will be distributed to us. Prior to this pro rata distribution, Partnership is required to pay to us sufficient amounts to fund our expenses or other obligations (to the extent related to our role as the general partner or our business and affairs that are conducted through Partnership or its subsidiaries) to ensure that any property and cash distributed to us in respect of the common shares will be available for distribution to holders of common shares in an amount per share equal to distributions in respect of each Partnership exchangeable unit. The terms of the Partnership exchangeable units do not provide for an automatic exchange of Partnership exchangeable units into our common shares upon a dissolution or liquidation of Partnership or us.
•Approval of holders of the Partnership exchangeable units is required for an action (such as an amendment to the partnership agreement) that would affect the economic rights of a Partnership exchangeable unit relative to a common share.
•The holders of Partnership exchangeable units are indirectly entitled to vote in respect of matters on which holders of our common shares are entitled to vote, including in respect of the election of our directors, through a special voting share of the Company. The special voting share is held by a trustee, entitling the trustee to that number of votes on matters on which holders of common shares are entitled to vote equal to the number of Partnership exchangeable units outstanding. The trustee is required to cast such votes in accordance with voting instructions provided by holders of Partnership exchangeable units. The trustee will exercise each vote attached to the special voting share only as directed by the relevant holder of Partnership exchangeable units and, in the absence of instructions from a holder of an exchangeable unit as to voting, will not exercise those votes. Except as otherwise required by the partnership agreement, voting trust agreement or applicable law, the holders of the Partnership exchangeable units are not directly entitled to receive notice of or to attend any meeting of the unitholders of Partnership or to vote at any such meeting.
Exercise of Optional Exchange Right
In order to exercise the exchange right referred to above, a holder of Partnership exchangeable units must deliver to Partnership’s transfer agent a duly executed exchange notice together with such additional documents and instruments as the transfer agent and Partnership may reasonably require. The exchange notice must (i) specify the number of Partnership exchangeable units in respect of which the holder is exercising the exchange right and (ii) state the business day on which the holder desires to have Partnership exchange the subject units, provided that the exchange date must not be less than 15 business days nor more than 30 business days after the date on which the exchange notice is received by Partnership. If no exchange date is specified in an exchange notice, the exchange date will be deemed to be the 15th business day after the date on which the exchange notice is received by Partnership. An exercise of the exchange right may be revoked by the exercising holder by notice in writing given to Partnership before the close of business on the fifth business day immediately preceding the exchange date. On the exchange date, Partnership will deliver or cause the transfer agent to deliver to the relevant holder, as applicable (i) the applicable number of exchanged shares, or (ii) a cheque representing the applicable exchangeable units cash amount, in each case, less any amounts withheld on account of tax.
Offers for Units or Shares
The partnership agreement contains provisions to the effect that if a take-over bid is made for all of the outstanding Partnership exchangeable units and not less than 90% of the Partnership exchangeable units (other than units of Partnership held at the date of the take-over bid by or on behalf of the offeror or its associates, affiliates or persons acting jointly or in concert with the offeror) are taken up and paid for by the offeror, the offeror will be entitled to acquire the Partnership exchangeable units held by unitholders who did not accept the offer on the terms offered by the offeror. The partnership agreement further provides that for so long as Partnership exchangeable units remain outstanding, (i) we will not propose or
48
Table of Contents
recommend a formal bid for our common shares, and no such bid will be effected with the consent or approval of our board of directors, unless holders of Partnership exchangeable units are entitled to participate in the bid to the same extent and on an equitably equivalent basis as the holders of our common shares, and (ii) we will not propose or recommend a formal bid for Partnership exchangeable units, and no such bid will be effected with the consent or approval of our board of directors, unless holders of the Company’s common shares are entitled to participate in the bid to the same extent and on an equitably equivalent basis as the holders of Partnership exchangeable units. Canadian securities regulatory authorities may intervene in the public interest (either on application by an interested party or by staff of a Canadian securities regulatory authority) to prevent an offer to holders of our common shares, Preferred Shares or Partnership exchangeable units being made or completed where such offer is abusive of the holders of one of those security classes that are not subject to that offer.
Merger, Sale or Other Disposition of Assets
As long as any Partnership exchangeable units are outstanding, we cannot consummate a transaction in which all or substantially all of our assets would become the property of any other person or entity. This does not apply to a transaction if such other person or entity becomes bound by the partnership agreement and assumes our obligations, as long as the transaction does not impair in any material respect the rights, duties, powers and authorities of other parties to the partnership agreement.

Mandatory Exchange
Partnership may cause a mandatory exchange of the outstanding Partnership exchangeable units into our common shares in the event that (1) at any time there remain outstanding fewer than 5% of the number of Partnership exchangeable units outstanding as of the effective time of the Merger (other than Partnership exchangeable units held by us and our subsidiaries and as such number of Partnership exchangeable units may be adjusted in accordance with the partnership agreement); (2) any one of the following occurs: (i) any person, firm or corporation acquires directly or indirectly any voting security of the Company and immediately after such acquisition, the acquirer has voting securities representing more than 50% of the total voting power of all the then outstanding voting securities of the Company on a fully diluted basis, (ii) our shareholders shall approve a merger, consolidation, recapitalization or reorganization of the Company, other than any transaction which would result in the holders of outstanding voting securities of the Company immediately prior to such transaction having at least a majority of the total voting power represented by the voting securities of the surviving entity outstanding immediately after such transaction, with the voting power of each such continuing holder relative to other continuing holders not being altered substantially in the transaction; or (iii) our shareholders shall approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition of the Company of all or substantially all of our assets, provided that, in each case, we, in our capacity as the general partner of Partnership, determine, in good faith and in our sole discretion, that such transaction involves a bona fide third-party and is not for the primary purpose of causing the exchange of the Partnership exchangeable units in connection with such transaction; or (3) a matter arises in respect of which applicable law provides holders of Partnership exchangeable units with a vote as holders of units of Partnership in order to approve or disapprove, as applicable, any change to, or in the rights of the holders of, the Partnership exchangeable units, where the approval or disapproval, as applicable, of such change would be required to maintain the economic equivalence of the Partnership exchangeable units and our common shares, and the holders of the Partnership exchangeable units fail to take the necessary action at a meeting or other vote of holders of Partnership exchangeable units to approve or disapprove, as applicable, such matter in order to maintain economic equivalence of the Partnership exchangeable units and our common shares.
49
Table of Contents
Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

Certain information contained in our Annual Report, including information regarding future financial performance and plans, targets, aspirations, expectations, and objectives of management, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and forward-looking information within the meaning of the Canadian securities laws. We refer to all of these as forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are forward-looking in nature and, accordingly, are subject to risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements can generally be identified by the use of words such as “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”, “intend”, “estimate”, “plan”, “continue”, “will”, “may”, “could”, “would”, “target”, “potential” and other similar expressions and include, without limitation, statements regarding our expectations or beliefs regarding (i) our ability to become one of the most efficient franchised QSR operators in the world; (ii) the benefits of our fully franchised business model; (iii) the domestic and international growth opportunities for the Tim Hortons, Burger King, Popeyes and Firehouse Subs brands, both in existing and new markets; (iv) our ability to accelerate international development through joint venture structures and master franchise and development agreements and the impact on future growth and profitability of our brands; (v) our continued use of joint ventures structures and master franchise and development agreements in connection with our domestic and international expansion and potential deployment of similar arrangements for Firehouse Subs in the future; (vi) the impact of our strategies on the growth of our Tim Hortons, Burger King, Popeyes and Firehouse Subs brands and our profitability; (vii) our commitment to technology and innovation, our continued investment in our technology capabilities and our plans and strategies with respect to digital sales, our information systems and technology offerings and investments; (viii) the correlation between our sales, guest traffic and profitability to consumer discretionary spending and the factors that influence spending; (ix) our ability to drive traffic, expand our customer base and allow restaurants to expand into new dayparts through new product innovation; (x) the benefits accrued from sharing and leveraging best practices among our Tim Hortons, Burger King, Popeyes and Firehouse Subs brands; (xi) the drivers of the long-term success for and competitive position of each of our brands as well as increased sales and profitability of our franchisees; (xii) the impact of our cost management initiatives at each of our brands; (xiii) the continued use of certain franchise incentives, their impact on our financial results and our ability to mitigate such impact; (xiv) the impact of our modern image remodel initiative and our ability to mitigate the negative impact of such initiative on royalty rates through entry into new BK franchise agreements; (xv) the effects and continued impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our results of operations, business, liquidity, prospects and restaurant operations and those of our franchisees, including local conditions and government-imposed limitations and restrictions; (xvi) our digital and marketing initiatives, including the success of our “Reclaim the Flame” initiative on sales growth and franchisee profitability; (xvii) our future financial obligations, including annual debt service requirements, capital expenditures and dividend payments, our ability to meet such obligations and the source of funds used to satisfy such obligations; (xviii) our future uses of liquidity, including dividend payments and share repurchases; (xix) any future cash flow support to franchisees and the impact of such support on our future cash flow and financial results; (xx) the amount and timing of future FHS Transaction costs and Corporate restructuring and tax advisory fees; (xxi) our exposure to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates and the impact of changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates on the amount of our interest payments, future earnings and cash flows; (xxii) the amount of net cash settlements we expect to pay on our derivative instruments; (xxiii) our tax positions and their compliance with applicable tax laws; (xxiv) certain accounting matters, including the impact of changes in accounting standards; (xxv) certain tax matters, including our estimates with respect to tax matters and their impact on future periods, and any costs associated with contesting tax liabilities; (xxvi) the impact of inflation on our results of operations; (xxvii) our goals with respect to reduction in greenhouse gas emissions; (xxviii) the impact of governmental regulation, both domestically and internationally, on our business and financial and operational results; (xxix) the adequacy of our facilities to meet our current requirements; (xxx) our future financial and operational results; (xxxi) certain litigation matters; (xxxii) our target total dividend for 2023; (xxxiii) our sustainability initiatives and the impact of government sustainability regulation and initiatives; and (xxxiv) the impact of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine.

Our forward-looking statements, included in this Annual Report and elsewhere, represent management’s expectations as of the date that they are made. Our forward-looking statements are based on assumptions and analyses made by the Company in light of its experience and its perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments, as well as other factors it believes are appropriate in the circumstances. However, these forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such statements. Important factors that could cause actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements include, among other things, risks related to: (1) our substantial indebtedness, which could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations; (2) global economic or other business conditions that may affect the desire or ability of our customers to purchase our products, such as the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, inflationary pressures, high unemployment levels, declines in median income growth, consumer confidence and consumer discretionary spending and changes in consumer perceptions of dietary health and food safety; (3) our relationship with, and the success of, our franchisees and risks related to our fully franchised business model; (4) our franchisees' financial stability and their ability to access and maintain the liquidity necessary to operate their
50
Table of Contents
businesses; (5) our supply chain operations; (6) our ownership and leasing of real estate; (7) the effectiveness of our marketing, advertising and digital programs and franchisee support of these programs; (8) significant and rapid fluctuations in interest rates and in the currency exchange markets and the effectiveness of our hedging activity; (9) our ability to successfully implement our domestic and international growth strategy for each of our brands and risks related to our international operations; (10) our reliance on franchisees, including subfranchisees to accelerate restaurant growth; (11) the ability of the counterparties to our credit facilities’ and derivatives’ to fulfill their commitments and/or obligations; and (12) changes in applicable tax laws or interpretations thereof, and our ability to accurately interpret and predict the impact of such changes or interpretations on our financial condition and results; (13) evolving legislation and regulations in the area of franchise and labor and employment law; and (14) our ability to address environmental and social sustainability issues.

We operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment and our inability to successfully manage any of the above risks may permit our competitors to increase their market share and may decrease our profitability. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for our management to predict all risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.

Although we believe the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, level of activity, performance or achievements. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of any of these forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Finally, our future results will depend upon various other risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those detailed in the section entitled “Item 1A - Risk Factors” of this Annual Report as well as other materials that we from time to time file with, or furnish to, the SEC or file with Canadian securities regulatory authorities. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements in this section and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Other than as required under securities laws, we do not assume a duty to update these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, subsequent events or circumstances, changes in expectations or otherwise.
51
Table of Contents
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

RESTAURANT BRANDS INTERNATIONAL INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  
 	Page
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
53
Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
54
Consolidated Balance Sheets
57
Consolidated Statements of Operations
58
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss)
59
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity
60
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
61
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
62
 

52
Table of Contents
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Management is responsible for the preparation, integrity and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements, related notes and other information included in this annual report. The consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and include certain amounts based on management’s estimates and assumptions. Other financial information presented in the annual report is derived from the consolidated financial statements.
Management is also responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, and for performing an assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Our system of internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.
Management performed an assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022 based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on our assessment and those criteria, management determined that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2022.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
The effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022 has been audited by KPMG LLP, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in its report which is included herein.

53
Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and Board of Directors
Restaurant Brands International Inc.:

Opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Restaurant Brands International Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss), shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2022, and the related notes (collectively, the consolidated financial statements). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2022, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, and our report dated February 22, 2023 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

Basis for Opinion

These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Critical Audit Matter

The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the consolidated financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of a critical audit matter does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.

Gross unrecognized tax benefits

As discussed in Notes 2 and 11 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company records a liability for unrecognized tax benefits associated with uncertain tax positions. The Company recognizes tax benefits from tax positions only if there is more than a 50% likelihood that the tax positions will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the positions. As of December 31, 2022, the Company has recorded gross unrecognized tax benefits, excluding associated interest and penalties, of $139 million.
54
Table of Contents

We identified the assessment of gross unrecognized tax benefits resulting from certain tax planning strategies implemented during the year as a critical audit matter. Identifying and determining uncertain tax positions arising from implementing tax planning strategies involved a number of judgments and assumptions, which included complex considerations of tax law. As a result, subjective and complex auditor judgment, including the involvement of tax professionals with specialized skills and knowledge, was required to evaluate the Company’s interpretation of tax law and its determination of which tax positions have more than a 50% likelihood of being sustained upon examination.

The following are the primary procedures we performed to address this critical audit matter. We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of certain internal controls related to the Company’s gross unrecognized tax benefits process, including controls related to 1) interpreting tax law, 2) identifying significant uncertain tax positions arising from tax planning strategies that were implemented during the year, 3) evaluating the tax consequences of the related strategies, and 4) evaluating which of the Company’s tax positions may not be sustained upon examination. In addition, we involved tax professionals with specialized skills and knowledge, who assisted in:

•obtaining an understanding of the Company’s tax planning strategies
•evaluating the Company’s interpretation of the relevant tax laws by developing an independent assessment
•evaluating the Company’s identification of uncertain tax positions to assess the tax consequences of these related tax positions
•performing an independent assessment of the Company’s tax positions and comparing our assessment to the Company’s assessment.
(signed) KPMG LLP
We have served as the Company's auditor since 1989.
Miami, Florida
February 22, 2023

55
Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and Board of Directors
Restaurant Brands International Inc.:
Opinion on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
We have audited Restaurant Brands International Inc. and subsidiaries’ (the Company) internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss), shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2022, and the related notes (collectively, the consolidated financial statements), and our report dated February 22, 2023 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.
Basis for Opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
(signed) KPMG LLP
Miami, Florida
February 22, 2023


56
Table of Contents
RESTAURANT BRANDS INTERNATIONAL INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(In millions of U.S. dollars, except share data)
 
 	As of December 31,
 	2022		2021
ASSETS			
Current assets:			
Cash and cash equivalents	$	1,178 			$	1,087 	
Accounts and notes receivable, net of allowance of $36 and $18, respectively
614 			547 	
Inventories, net	133 			96 	
Prepaids and other current assets	123 			86 	
Total current assets	2,048 			1,816 	
Property and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization of $1,061 and $979, respectively
1,950 			2,035 	
Operating lease assets, net	1,082 			1,130 	
Intangible assets, net	10,991 			11,417 	
Goodwill	5,688 			6,006 	
Net investment in property leased to franchisees	82 			80 	
Other assets, net	905 			762 	
Total assets	$	22,746 			$	23,246 	
LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY			
Current liabilities:			
Accounts and drafts payable	$	758 			$	614 	
Other accrued liabilities	1,001 			947 	
Gift card liability	230 			221 	
Current portion of long-term debt and finance leases	127 			96 	
Total current liabilities	2,116 			1,878 	
Long-term debt, net of current portion	12,839 			12,916 	
Finance leases, net of current portion	311 			333 	
Operating lease liabilities, net of current portion	1,027 			1,070 	
Other liabilities, net	872 			1,822 	
Deferred income taxes, net	1,313 			1,374 	
Total liabilities	18,478 			19,393 	
Commitments and contingencies (Note 17)			
Shareholders’ equity:			
Common shares, no par value; Unlimited shares authorized at December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021; 307,142,436 shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2022; 309,025,068 shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2021
2,057 			2,156 	
Retained earnings	1,121 			791 	
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)	(679)			(710)	
Total Restaurant Brands International Inc. shareholders’ equity	2,499 			2,237 	
Noncontrolling interests	1,769 			1,616 	
Total shareholders’ equity	4,268 			3,853 	
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity	$	22,746 			$	23,246 	
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
Approved on behalf of the Board of Directors:
By:	 	/s/ J. Patrick Doyle		By:	 	/s/ Ali Hedayat
 	J. Patrick Doyle, Executive Chairman			 	Ali Hedayat, Director
 

57
Table of Contents
RESTAURANT BRANDS INTERNATIONAL INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Consolidated Statements of Operations
(In millions of U.S. dollars, except per share data)

2022		2021		2020
Revenues:					
Sales	$	2,819 			$	2,378 			$	2,013 	
Franchise and property revenues	2,661 			2,443 			2,121 	
Advertising revenues and other services	1,025 			918 			834 	
Total revenues	6,505 			5,739 			4,968 	
Operating costs and expenses:					
Cost of sales	2,312 			1,890 			1,610 	
Franchise and property expenses	518 			489 			515 	
Advertising expenses and other services	1,077 			986 			870 	
General and administrative expenses	631 			484 			407 	
(Income) loss from equity method investments	44 			4 			39 	
Other operating expenses (income), net	25 			7 			105 	
Total operating costs and expenses	4,607 			3,860 			3,546 	
Income from operations	1,898 			1,879 			1,422 	
Interest expense, net	533 			505 			508 	
Loss on early extinguishment of debt	— 			11 			98 	
Income before income taxes	1,365 			1,363 			816 	
Income tax (benefit) expense	(117)			110 			66 	
Net income	1,482 			1,253 			750 	
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (Note 13)	474 			415 			264 	
Net income attributable to common shareholders	$	1,008 			$	838 			$	486 	
Earnings per common share:					
Basic	$	3.28 			$	2.71 			$	1.61 	
Diluted	$	3.25 			$	2.69 			$	1.60 	
Weighted average shares outstanding (in millions):					
Basic	307 			310 			302 	
Diluted	455 			464 			468 	
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

58
Table of Contents
RESTAURANT BRANDS INTERNATIONAL INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss)
(In millions of U.S. dollars)

2022		2021		2020
Net income	$	1,482 			$	1,253 			$	750 	
Foreign currency translation adjustment	(703)			(67)			332 	
Net change in fair value of net investment hedges, net of tax of $(77), $15, and $60
332 			111 			(242)	
Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges, net of tax of $(141), $(36), and $91
382 			96 			(244)	
Amounts reclassified to earnings of cash flow hedges, net of tax of $(12), $(36), and $(27)
34 			96 			73 	
Gain (loss) recognized on defined benefit pension plans and other items, net of tax of $(2), $(3), and $3
6 			15 			(16)	
Other comprehensive income (loss)	51 			251 			(97)	
Comprehensive income (loss)	1,533 			1,504 			653 	
Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests	490 			499 			224 	
Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to common shareholders	$	1,043 			$	1,005 			$	429 	
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

59
Table of Contents
RESTAURANT BRANDS INTERNATIONAL INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity
(In millions of U.S. dollars, except shares)
 	 
Issued Common Shares		Retained
Earnings		Accumulated
Other
Comprehensive
Income (Loss)		Noncontrolling
Interests		Total
 	Shares		Amount	
Balances at December 31, 2019	298,281,081 			$	2,478 			$	775 			$	(763)			$	1,769 			$	4,259 	
Stock option exercises	2,447,627 			82 			— 			— 			— 			82 	
Share-based compensation	— 			74 			— 			— 			— 			74 	
Issuance of shares	469,145 			6 			— 			— 			— 			6 	
Dividends declared on common shares ($2.08 per share)
— 			— 			(631)			— 			— 			(631)	
Dividend equivalents declared on restricted stock units	— 			8 			(8)			— 			— 			— 	
Distributions declared by Partnership on partnership exchangeable units ($2.08 per unit)
— 			— 			— 			— 			(336)			(336)	
Repurchase of Partnership exchangeable units	— 			(293)			— 			(22)			(65)			(380)	
Exchange of Partnership exchangeable units for RBI common shares	3,636,169 			48 			— 			(12)			(36)			— 	
Other	(115,273)			(4)			— 			— 			— 			(4)	
Restaurant VIE contributions (distributions)	— 			— 			— 			— 			(2)			(2)	
Net income	— 			— 			486 			— 			264 			750 	
Other comprehensive income (loss)	— 			— 			— 			(57)			(40)			(97)	
Balances at December 31, 2020	304,718,749 			$	2,399 			$	622 			$	(854)			$	1,554 			$	3,721 	
Stock option exercises	1,594,146 			60 			— 			— 			— 			60 	
Share-based compensation	— 			88 			— 			— 			— 			88 	
Issuance of shares	1,839,941 			12 			— 			— 			— 			12 	
Dividends declared on common shares ($2.12 per share)
— 			— 			(658)			— 			— 			(658)	
Dividend equivalents declared on restricted stock units	— 			11 			(11)			— 			— 			— 	
Distributions declared by Partnership on partnership exchangeable units ($2.12 per units)
— 			— 			— 			— 			(318)			(318)	
Repurchase of RBI common shares	(9,247,648)			(551)			— 			— 			— 			(551)	
Exchange of Partnership exchangeable units for RBI common shares	10,119,880 			137 			— 			(23)			(114)			— 	
Restaurant VIE contributions (distributions)	— 			— 			— 			— 			(5)			(5)	
Net income	— 			— 			838 			— 			415 			1,253 	
Other comprehensive income (loss)	— 			— 			— 			167 			84 			251 	
Balances at December 31, 2021	309,025,068 			$	2,156 			$	791 			$	(710)			$	1,616 			$	3,853 	
Stock option exercises	483,980 			21 			— 			— 			— 			21 	
Share-based compensation	— 			121 			— 			— 			— 			121 	
Issuance of shares	1,737,934 			43 			— 			— 			— 			43 	
Dividends declared on common shares ($2.16 per share)
— 			— 			(664)			— 			— 			(664)	
Dividend equivalents declared on restricted stock units	— 			14 			(14)			— 			— 			— 	
Distributions declared by Partnership on partnership exchangeable units ($2.16 per unit)
— 			— 			— 			— 			(309)			(309)	
Repurchase of RBI common shares	(6,101,364)			(326)			— 			— 			— 			(326)	
Exchange of Partnership exchangeable units for RBI common shares	1,996,818 			28 			— 			(4)			(24)			— 	
Restaurant VIE contributions (distributions)	— 			— 			— 			— 			(4)			(4)	
Net income	— 			— 			1,008 			— 			474 			1,482 	
Other comprehensive income (loss)	— 			— 			— 			35 			16 			51 	
Balances at December 31, 2022	307,142,436 			$	2,057 			$	1,121 			$	(679)			$	1,769 			$	4,268 	
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
60
Table of Contents
RESTAURANT BRANDS INTERNATIONAL INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(In millions of U.S. dollars)

2022		2021		2020
Cash flows from operating activities:					
Net income	$	1,482 			$	1,253 			$	750 	
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:					
Depreciation and amortization	190 			201 			189 	
Premiums paid and non-cash loss on early extinguishment of debt	— 			11 			97 	
Amortization of deferred financing costs and debt issuance discount	28 			27 			26 	
(Income) loss from equity method investments	44 			4 			39 	
Loss (gain) on remeasurement of foreign denominated transactions	(4)			(76)			100 	
Net (gains) losses on derivatives	(9)			87 			32 	
Share-based compensation and non-cash incentive compensation expense	136 			102 			84 	
Deferred income taxes	(60)			(5)			(208)	
Other	19 			(16)			28 	
Changes in current assets and liabilities, excluding acquisitions and dispositions:					
Accounts and notes receivable	(110)			8 			(30)	
Inventories and prepaids and other current assets	(61)			12 			(10)	
Accounts and drafts payable	169 			149 			(183)	
Other accrued liabilities and gift card liability	37 			67 			6 	
Tenant inducements paid to franchisees	(26)			(20)			(22)	
Other long-term assets and liabilities	(345)			(78)			23 	
Net cash provided by operating activities	1,490 			1,726 			921 	
Cash flows from investing activities:					
Payments for property and equipment	(100)			(106)			(117)	
Net proceeds from disposal of assets, restaurant closures and refranchisings	12 			16 			12 	
Net payment for purchase of Firehouse Subs, net of cash acquired	(12)			(1,004)			— 	
Settlement/sale of derivatives, net	71 			5 			33 	
Other investing activities, net	(35)			(14)			(7)	
Net cash used for investing activities	(64)			(1,103)			(79)	
Cash flows from financing activities:					
Proceeds from revolving line of credit and long-term debt	2 			1,335 			5,235 	
Repayments of revolving line of credit, long-term debt and finance leases	(94)			(889)			(4,708)	
Payment of financing costs	— 			(19)			(43)	
Payment of dividends on common shares and distributions on Partnership exchangeable units	(971)			(974)			(959)	
Repurchase of Partnership exchangeable units	— 			— 			(380)	
Repurchase of common shares	(326)			(551)			— 	
Proceeds from stock option exercises	21 			60 			82 	
Proceeds from issuance of common shares	30 			— 			— 	
(Payments) proceeds from derivatives	34 			(51)			(46)	
Other financing activities, net	(3)			(4)			(2)	
Net cash used for financing activities	(1,307)			(1,093)			(821)	
Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents	(28)			(3)			6 	
Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents	91 			(473)			27 	
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period	1,087 			1,560 			1,533 	
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period	$	1,178 			$	1,087 			$	1,560 	
Supplemental cash flow disclosures:					
Interest paid	$	487 			$	404 			$	463 	
Income taxes paid, net	$	275 			$	256 			$	267 	
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
61
Table of Contents
RESTAURANT BRANDS INTERNATIONAL INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 1. Description of Business and Organization
Description of Business
Restaurant Brands International Inc. (the “Company,” “RBI,” “we,” “us” or “our”) is a Canadian corporation that serves as the sole general partner of Restaurant Brands International Limited Partnership (the “Partnership”). On December 15, 2021 we acquired FRG, LLC (“Firehouse Subs”). We franchise and operate quick service restaurants serving premium coffee and other beverage and food products under the Tim Hortons® brand (“Tim Hortons” or “TH”), fast food hamburgers principally under the Burger King® brand (“Burger King” or “BK”), chicken under the Popeyes® brand (“Popeyes” or “PLK”) and sandwiches under the Firehouse Subs® brand (“Firehouse” or “FHS”). We are one of the world’s largest quick service restaurant, or QSR, companies as measured by total number of restaurants. As of December 31, 2022, we franchised or owned 5,600 Tim Hortons restaurants, 19,789 Burger King restaurants, 4,091 Popeyes restaurants, and 1,242 Firehouse restaurants, for a total of 30,722 restaurants, and operate in more than 100 countries. Approximately 100% of current system-wide restaurants are franchised.
All references to “$” or “dollars” are to the currency of the United States unless otherwise indicated. All references to “Canadian dollars” or “C$” are to the currency of Canada unless otherwise indicated.
Note 2. Significant Accounting Policies
Fiscal Year
We operate on a monthly calendar, with a fiscal year that ends on December 31.
Basis of Presentation
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) and related rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission requires our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could differ from these estimates.
Principles of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements (the "Financial Statements") include our accounts and the accounts of entities in which we have a controlling financial interest, the usual condition of which is ownership of a majority voting interest. We also consolidate marketing funds we control. All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Investments in other affiliates that are owned 50% or less where we have significant influence are accounted for by the equity method.
We are the sole general partner of Partnership and, as such we have the exclusive right, power and authority to manage, control, administer and operate the business and affairs and to make decisions regarding the undertaking and business of Partnership, subject to the terms of the partnership agreement of Partnership (“partnership agreement”) and applicable laws. As a result, we consolidate the results of Partnership and record a noncontrolling interest in our consolidated balance sheets and statements of operations with respect to the remaining economic interest in Partnership we do not hold.
We also consider for consolidation entities in which we have certain interests, where the controlling financial interest may be achieved through arrangements that do not involve voting interests. Such an entity, known as a variable interest entity (“VIE”), is required to be consolidated by its primary beneficiary. The primary beneficiary is the entity that possesses the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact its economic performance and has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that are significant to it. Our maximum exposure to loss resulting from involvement with VIEs is attributable to accounts and notes receivable balances, investment balances, outstanding loan guarantees and future lease payments, where applicable.
As our franchise and master franchise arrangements provide the franchise and master franchise entities the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact their economic performance, we do not consider ourselves the primary beneficiary of any such entity that might be a VIE.
Tim Hortons has historically entered into certain arrangements in which an operator acquires the right to operate a restaurant, but Tim Hortons owns the restaurant’s assets. In these arrangements, Tim Hortons has the ability to determine which operators manage the restaurants and for what duration. We perform an analysis to determine if the legal entity in which operations are
62
Table of Contents
conducted is a VIE and consolidate a VIE entity if we also determine Tim Hortons is the entity’s primary beneficiary (“Restaurant VIEs”). As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, we determined that we are the primary beneficiary of 41 and 46 Restaurant VIEs, respectively, and accordingly, have consolidated the results of operations, assets and liabilities, and cash flows of these Restaurant VIEs in our Financial Statements.
Assets and liabilities related to consolidated VIEs are not significant to our total consolidated assets and liabilities. Liabilities recognized as a result of consolidating these VIEs do not necessarily represent additional claims on our general assets; rather, they represent claims against the specific assets of the consolidated VIEs. Conversely, assets recognized as a result of consolidating these VIEs do not represent additional assets that could be used to satisfy claims by our creditors as they are not legally included within our general assets.
Reclassifications
Certain prior year amounts in the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements have been reclassified in order to be comparable with the current year classifications. These consist of the 2021 reclassification of $9 million of technology fee revenues from Franchise and property revenues to Advertising revenues and other services and $24 million of technology expenses from General and administrative expenses to Advertising expenses and other services. These reclassifications did not arise as a result of any changes to accounting policies and relate entirely to presentation with no effect on previously reported net income.
Foreign Currency Translation and Transaction Gains and Losses
Our functional currency is the U.S. dollar, since our term loans and senior secured notes are denominated in U.S. dollars, and the principal market for our common shares is the U.S. The functional currency of each of our operating subsidiaries is generally the currency of the economic environment in which the subsidiary primarily does business. Our foreign subsidiaries’ financial statements are translated into U.S. dollars using the foreign exchange rates applicable to the dates of the financial statements. Assets and liabilities are translated using the end-of-period spot foreign exchange rates. Income, expenses and cash flows are translated at the average foreign exchange rates for each period. Equity accounts are translated at historical foreign exchange rates. The effects of these translation adjustments are reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (“AOCI”) in the consolidated statements of shareholders’ equity.
For any transaction that is denominated in a currency different from the entity’s functional currency, we record a gain or loss based on the difference between the foreign exchange rate at the transaction date and the foreign exchange rate at the transaction settlement date (or rate at period end, if unsettled) which is included within other operating expenses (income), net in the consolidated statements of operations.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
All highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and credit card receivables are considered cash equivalents.
Accounts and Notes Receivable, net
Our credit loss exposure is mainly concentrated in our accounts and notes receivable portfolio, which consists primarily of amounts due from franchisees, including royalties, rents, franchise fees, contributions due to advertising funds we manage and, in the case of our TH segment, amounts due for supply chain sales. Accounts and notes receivable are reported net of an allowance for expected credit losses over the estimated life of the receivable. Credit losses are estimated based on aging, historical collection experience, financial position of the franchisee and other factors, including those related to current economic conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts of future conditions.
Bad debt expense recognized for expected credit losses is classified in our consolidated statement of operations as Cost of sales, Franchise and property expenses or Advertising expenses and other services, based on the nature of the underlying receivable. Net bad debt expense (recoveries) totaled $19 million in 2022, $(9) million in 2021 and $33 million in 2020.
Inventories
Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or net realizable value and consist primarily of raw materials such as green coffee beans and finished goods such as new equipment, parts, paper supplies and restaurant food items. The moving average method is used to determine the cost of raw materials and finished goods inventories held for sale to Tim Hortons franchisees.

63
Table of Contents
Property and Equipment, net
We record property and equipment at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization, which is recognized using the straight-line method over the following estimated useful lives: (i) buildings and improvements – up to 40 years; (ii) restaurant equipment – up to 17 years; (iii) furniture, fixtures and other – up to 10 years; and (iv) manufacturing equipment – up to 25 years. Leasehold improvements to properties where we are the lessee are amortized over the lesser of the remaining term of the lease or the estimated useful life of the improvement.
Major improvements are capitalized, while maintenance and repairs are expensed when incurred.
Capitalized Software and Cloud Computing Costs
We record capitalized software at historical cost less accumulated amortization, which is recognized using the straight-line method. Amortization expense is based on the estimated useful life of the software, which is primarily up to five years, once the asset is available for its intended use.
Implementation costs incurred in connection with Cloud Computing Arrangements (“CCA”) are capitalized consistently with costs capitalized for internal-use software. Capitalized CCA implementation costs are included in “Other assets” in the consolidated balance sheets and are amortized over the term of the related hosting agreement, including renewal periods that are reasonably certain to be exercised. Amortization expense of CCA implementation costs is classified as “General and administrative expenses” in the consolidated statements of operations.
Leases
In all leases, whether we are the lessor or lessee, we define lease term as the noncancellable term of the lease plus any renewals covered by renewal options that are reasonably certain of exercise based on our assessment of the economic factors relevant to the lessee. The noncancellable term of the lease commences on the date the lessor makes the underlying property in the lease available to the lessee, irrespective of when lease payments begin under the contract.
Lessor Accounting
We recognize lease payments for operating leases as property revenue on a straight-line basis over the lease term, and property revenue is presented net of any related sales tax. Lease incentive payments we make to lessees are amortized as a reduction in property revenue over the lease term. We account for reimbursements of maintenance and property tax costs paid to us by lessees as property revenue.
We also have net investments in properties leased to franchisees, which meet the criteria of sales-type leases or met the criteria of direct financing leases under the previous accounting guidance. Investments in sales-type leases and direct financing leases are recorded on a net basis. Profit on sales-type leases is recognized at lease commencement and recorded in other operating expenses (income), net. Unearned income on direct financing leases is deferred, included in the net investment in the lease, and recognized over the lease term yielding a constant periodic rate of return on the net investment in the lease.
We recognize variable lease payment income in the period when changes in facts and circumstances on which the variable lease payments are based occur.
Lessee Accounting
In leases where we are the lessee, we recognize a right-of-use (“ROU”) asset and lease liability at lease commencement, which are measured by discounting lease payments using our incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate. We determine the incremental borrowing rate applicable to each lease by reference to our outstanding secured borrowings and implied spreads over the risk-free discount rates that correspond to the term of each lease, as adjusted for the currency of the lease. Subsequent amortization of the ROU asset and accretion of the lease liability for an operating lease is recognized as a single lease cost, on a straight-line basis, over the lease term. Reductions of the ROU asset and the change in the lease liability are included in changes in Other long-term assets and liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
A finance lease ROU asset is depreciated on a straight-line basis over the lesser of the useful life of the leased asset or lease term. Interest on each finance lease liability is determined as the amount that results in a constant periodic discount rate on the remaining balance of the liability. Operating lease and finance lease ROU assets are assessed for impairment in accordance with our long-lived asset impairment policy.
We reassess lease classification and remeasure ROU assets and lease liabilities when a lease is modified and that modification is not accounted for as a separate contract or upon certain other events that require reassessment. Maintenance and property tax expenses are accounted for on an accrual basis as variable lease cost.
64
Table of Contents
We recognize variable lease cost in the period when changes in facts and circumstances on which the variable lease payments are based occur.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets Not Subject to Amortization
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with the acquisition of Firehouse Subs in 2021, the acquisition of Popeyes in 2017, the acquisition of Tim Hortons in 2014 and the acquisition of Burger King Holdings, Inc. by 3G Capital Partners Ltd. in 2010. Our indefinite-lived intangible assets consist of the Tim Hortons brand, the Burger King brand, the Popeyes brand and the Firehouse Subs brand (each a “Brand” and together, the “Brands”). Goodwill and the Brands are tested for impairment at least annually as of October 1 of each year and more often if an event occurs or circumstances change which indicate impairment might exist. Our annual impairment tests of goodwill and the Brands may be completed through qualitative assessments. We may elect to bypass the qualitative assessment and proceed directly to a quantitative impairment test for any reporting unit or Brand in any period. We can resume the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit or Brand in any subsequent period.
Under a qualitative approach, our impairment review for goodwill consists of an assessment of whether it is more-likely-than-not that a reporting unit’s fair value is less than its carrying amount. If we elect to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit, or if a qualitative assessment indicates it is more-likely-than-not that the estimated carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test that requires us to estimate the fair value of the reporting unit. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we will measure any goodwill impairment loss as the amount by which the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
Under a qualitative approach, our impairment review for the Brands consists of an assessment of whether it is more-likely-than-not that a Brand’s fair value is less than its carrying amount. If we elect to bypass the qualitative assessment for a Brand, or if a qualitative assessment indicates it is more-likely-than-not that the estimated carrying value of a Brand exceeds its fair value, we estimate the fair value of the Brand and compare it to its carrying amount. If the carrying amount exceeds fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.
We completed our impairment tests for goodwill and the Brands as of October 1, 2022, 2021 and 2020 and no impairment resulted.
Long-Lived Assets
Long-lived assets, such as property and equipment, intangible assets subject to amortization and lease right-of-use assets, are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset or asset group may not be recoverable. Some of the events or changes in circumstances that would trigger an impairment review include, but are not limited to, bankruptcy proceedings or other significant financial distress of a lessee; significant negative industry or economic trends; knowledge of transactions involving the sale of similar property at amounts below the carrying value; or our expectation to dispose of long-lived assets before the end of their estimated useful lives. The impairment test for long-lived assets requires us to assess the recoverability of long-lived assets by comparing their net carrying value to the sum of undiscounted estimated future cash flows directly associated with and arising from use and eventual disposition of the assets or asset group. Long-lived assets are grouped for recognition and measurement of impairment at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets. If the net carrying value of a group of long-lived assets exceeds the sum of related undiscounted estimated future cash flows, we record an impairment charge equal to the excess, if any, of the net carrying value over fair value.
Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
Other comprehensive income (loss) (“OCI”) refers to revenues, expenses, gains and losses that are included in comprehensive income (loss), but are excluded from net income (loss) as these amounts are recorded directly as an adjustment to shareholders’ equity, net of tax. Our other comprehensive income (loss) is primarily comprised of unrealized gains and losses on foreign currency translation adjustments and unrealized gains and losses on hedging activity, net of tax.
Derivative Financial Instruments
We recognize and measure all derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets. Derivative instruments accounted for as net investments hedges are classified as long term assets and liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. We may enter into derivatives that are not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes, but which largely offset the economic impact of certain transactions.
Gains or losses resulting from changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognized in earnings or recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) and recognized in the consolidated statements of operations when the hedged item affects earnings, depending on the purpose of the derivatives and whether they qualify for, and we have applied, hedge accounting treatment.
65
Table of Contents
When applying hedge accounting, we designate at a derivative’s inception, the specific assets, liabilities or future commitments being hedged, and assess the hedge’s effectiveness at inception and on an ongoing basis. We discontinue hedge accounting when: (i) we determine that the cash flow derivative is no longer effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows of a hedged item; (ii) the derivative expires or is sold, terminated or exercised; (iii) it is no longer probable that the forecasted transaction will occur; or (iv) management determines that designation of the derivatives as a hedge instrument is no longer appropriate. We do not enter into or hold derivatives for speculative purposes.
Disclosures about Fair Value
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants in the principal market, or if none exists, the most advantageous market, for the specific asset or liability at the measurement date (the exit price). The fair value is based on assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability. The fair values are assigned a level within the fair value hierarchy, depending on the source of the inputs into the calculation, as follows:
Level 1 Observable inputs that reflect quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability either directly or indirectly.
Level 3 Unobservable inputs reflecting management’s own assumptions about the inputs used in pricing the asset or liability.
The carrying amounts for cash and cash equivalents, accounts and notes receivable and accounts and drafts payable approximate fair value based on the short-term nature of these amounts.
We carry all of our derivatives at fair value and value them using various pricing models or discounted cash flow analysis that incorporate observable market parameters, such as interest rate yield curves and currency rates, which are Level 2 inputs. Derivative valuations incorporate credit risk adjustments that are necessary to reflect the probability of default by the counterparty or us. For disclosures about the fair value measurements of our derivative instruments, see Note 12, Derivative Instruments.
The following table presents the fair value of our variable rate term debt and senior notes, estimated using inputs based on bid and offer prices that are Level 2 inputs, and principal carrying amount (in millions):
As of December 31,
2022		2021
Fair value of our variable term debt and senior notes	$	11,885 			$	12,851 	
Principal carrying amount of our variable term debt and senior notes	12,890 			12,943 	
 
The determinations of fair values of certain tangible and intangible assets for purposes of the application of the acquisition method of accounting to the acquisition of Firehouse Subs were based on Level 3 inputs. The determination of fair values of our reporting units and the determination of the fair value of the Brands for impairment testing using a quantitative approach during 2022 and 2020 were based upon Level 3 inputs.
Revenue Recognition
Sales
Sales consist primarily of supply chain sales, which represent sales of products, supplies and restaurant equipment to franchisees, as well as sales to retailers and are presented net of any related sales tax. Orders placed by customers specify the goods to be delivered and transaction prices for supply chain sales. Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control over ordered items, generally upon delivery to the customer, which is when the customer obtains physical possession of the goods, legal title is transferred, the customer has all risks and rewards of ownership and an obligation to pay for the goods is created. Shipping and handling costs associated with outbound freight for supply chain sales are accounted for as fulfillment costs and classified as cost of sales.
To a much lesser extent, sales also include Company restaurant sales (including Restaurant VIEs), which consist of sales to restaurant guests. Revenue from Company restaurant sales is recognized at the point of sale. Taxes assessed by a governmental authority that we collect are excluded from revenue.

66
Table of Contents
Franchise and property revenues
Franchise revenues consist primarily of royalties, initial and renewal franchise fees and upfront fees from development agreements and master franchise and development agreements (“MFDAs”). Under franchise agreements, we provide franchisees with (i) a franchise license, which includes a license to use our intellectual property, (ii) pre-opening services, such as training and inspections, and (iii) ongoing services, such as development of training materials and menu items and restaurant monitoring and inspections. These services are highly interrelated and dependent upon the franchise license and we concluded these services do not represent individually distinct performance obligations. Consequently, we bundle the franchise license performance obligation and promises to provide these services into a single performance obligation (the “Franchise PO”), which we satisfy by providing a right to use our intellectual property over the term of each franchise agreement.
Royalties are calculated as a percentage of franchise restaurant sales over the term of the franchise agreement. Initial and renewal franchise fees are payable by the franchisee upon a new restaurant opening or renewal of an existing franchise agreement. Our franchise agreement royalties represent sales-based royalties that are related entirely to the Franchise PO and are recognized as franchise sales occur. Initial and renewal franchise fees are recognized as revenue on a straight-line basis over the term of the respective agreement. Our performance obligation under development agreements other than MFDAs generally consists of an obligation to grant exclusive development rights over a stated term. These development rights are not distinct from franchise agreements, so upfront fees paid by franchisees for exclusive development rights are deferred and apportioned to each franchise restaurant opened by the franchisee. The pro rata amount apportioned to each restaurant is accounted for as an initial franchise fee.
We have a distinct performance obligation under our MFDAs to grant subfranchising rights over a stated term. Under the terms of MFDAs, we typically either receive an upfront fee paid in cash and/or receive noncash consideration in the form of an equity interest in the master franchisee or an affiliate of the master franchisee. We account for noncash consideration as investments in the applicable equity method investee and recognize revenue in an amount equal to the fair value of the equity interest received. Upfront fees from master franchisees, including the fair value of noncash consideration, are deferred and amortized over the MFDA term on a straight-line basis. We may recognize unamortized upfront fees when a contract with a franchisee or master franchisee is modified and is accounted for as a termination of the existing contract.
The portion of gift cards sold to customers which are never redeemed is commonly referred to as gift card breakage. We recognize gift card breakage income proportionately as each gift card is redeemed using an estimated breakage rate based on our historical experience.
Property revenues consists of rental income from properties we lease or sublease to franchisees. Property revenues are accounted for in accordance with applicable accounting guidance for leases and are excluded from the scope of revenue recognition guidance.
In certain instances, we provide incentives to franchisees in connection with restaurant renovations or other initiatives. These incentives may consist of cash consideration or non-cash consideration such as restaurant equipment. In general, these incentives are designed to support system-wide sales growth to increase our future revenues. The costs of these incentives are capitalized and amortized as a reduction in franchise and property revenue over the term of the contract to which the incentive relates.
Advertising revenues and other services
Advertising revenues consist primarily of franchisee contributions to advertising funds in those markets where our subsidiaries manage an advertising fund and are calculated as a percentage of franchise restaurant sales over the term of the franchise agreement. Under our franchise agreements, advertising contributions received from franchisees must be spent on advertising, product development, marketing, and related activities. We determined our advertising and promotion management services do not represent individually distinct performance obligations and are included in the Franchise PO.
Other services revenues consist primarily of fees from digital sales that partially offset expenses related to technology initiatives. These services are distinct from the Franchise PO because they are not dependent upon the franchise license or highly interrelated with the franchise license.
Cost of Sales
Cost of sales consists primarily of costs associated with the management of our TH supply chain, including cost of goods, direct labor, depreciation and bad debt expense (recoveries) from supply chain sales. Cost of sales also includes food, paper and labor costs of Company restaurants.

67
Table of Contents
Franchise and Property Expenses
Franchise and property expenses consist primarily of depreciation of properties leased to franchisees, rental expense associated with properties subleased to franchisees, amortization of franchise agreements, and bad debt expense (recoveries) from franchise and property revenues.
Advertising Expenses and Other Services
Advertising expenses and other services consist primarily of expenses relating to marketing, advertising and promotion, including market research, production, advertising costs, sales promotions, social media campaigns, technology initiatives, bad debt expense (recoveries) from franchisee contributions to advertising funds we manage, depreciation and amortization and other related support functions for the respective brands. Additionally, we may incur discretionary expenses to fund advertising programs in connection with periodic initiatives.
Company restaurants and franchise restaurants contribute to advertising funds that our subsidiaries manage in the United States and Canada and certain other international markets. The advertising funds expense the production costs of advertising when the advertisements are first aired or displayed. All other advertising and promotional costs are expensed in the period incurred. Under our franchise agreements, advertising contributions received from franchisees must be spent on advertising, product development, marketing and related activities. The advertising contributions by Company restaurants (including Restaurant VIEs) are eliminated in consolidation. Consolidated advertising expense totaled $1,032 million, $962 million and $870 million in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
Deferred Financing Costs
Deferred financing costs are amortized over the term of the related debt agreement into interest expense using the effective interest method.
Income Taxes
Amounts in the Financial Statements related to income taxes are calculated using the principles of ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes. Under these principles, deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the impact of temporary differences between the amounts of assets and liabilities recognized for financial reporting purposes and the amounts recognized for tax purposes, as well as tax credit carry-forwards and loss carry-forwards. These deferred taxes are measured by applying currently enacted tax rates. A deferred tax asset is recognized when it is considered more-likely-than-not to be realized. The effects of changes in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized in income in the year in which the law is enacted. A valuation allowance reduces deferred tax assets when it is more-likely-than-not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.
We recognize positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return in the Financial Statements when it is more-likely-than-not (i.e., a likelihood of more than 50%) that the position would be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. A recognized tax position is then measured at the largest amount of benefit with greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement.
Translation gains and losses resulting from the remeasurement of foreign deferred tax assets or liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency are classified as other operating expenses (income), net in the consolidated statements of operations.
Share-based Compensation
Compensation expense related to the issuance of share-based awards to our employees is measured at fair value on the grant date. We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to value stock options. The fair value of restricted stock units (“RSUs”) is generally based on the closing price of RBI's common shares on the trading day preceding the date of grant. Our total shareholder return and if applicable our total shareholder return relative to our peer group is incorporated into the underlying assumptions using a Monte Carlo simulation valuation model to calculate grant date fair value for performance based awards with a market condition. The compensation expense for awards that vest over a future service period is recognized over the requisite service period on a straight-line basis, adjusted for estimated forfeitures of awards that are not expected to vest. We use historical data to estimate forfeitures for share-based awards. Upon the end of the service period, compensation expense is adjusted to account for the actual forfeiture rate. The compensation expense for awards that contain performance conditions is recognized when it is probable that the performance conditions will be achieved.

68
Table of Contents
New Accounting Pronouncements
Accounting Relief for the Transition Away from LIBOR and Certain other Reference Rates – In March 2020 and as clarified in January 2021 and December 2022, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance which provides optional expedients and exceptions for applying U.S. GAAP to contracts, hedging relationships, and other transactions that reference LIBOR or another reference rate expected to be discontinued because of reference rate reform. This amendment is effective as of March 12, 2020 through December 31, 2024. The expedients and exceptions provided by this new guidance do not apply to contract modifications made and hedging relationships entered into or evaluated after December 31, 2024, except for hedging relationships existing as of December 31, 2024, that an entity has elected certain optional expedients for and that are retained through the end of the hedging relationships. During the third quarter of 2021, we adopted certain of the expedients as it relates to hedge accounting as certain of our debt agreements and hedging relationships bear interest at variable rates, primarily U.S. dollar LIBOR. The adoption of and future elections under this new guidance did not and are not expected to have a material impact on our Financial Statements. We will continue to monitor the discontinuance of LIBOR on our debt agreements and hedging relationships.
Lessors—Certain Leases with Variable Lease Payments – In July 2021, the FASB issued guidance that requires lessors to classify and account for a lease with variable lease payments that do not depend on a reference index or a rate as an operating lease if (a) the lease would have been classified as a sales-type lease or a direct financing lease in accordance with lease classification criteria and (b) the lessor would have otherwise recognized a day-one loss. This amendment is effective in 2022 with early adoption permitted. This guidance may be applied either retrospectively to leases that commenced or were modified on or after the adoption of lease guidance we adopted in 2019 or prospectively to leases that commence or are modified on or after the date that this new guidance is applied. The adoption of this new guidance during the first quarter of 2022 did not have a material impact on our Financial Statements.
Liabilities—Supplier Finance Programs – In September 2022, the FASB issued guidance that requires buyers in a supplier finance program to disclose sufficient information about the program to allow investors to understand the program's nature, activity during the period, changes from period to period, and potential magnitude. These disclosures would include the key terms of the program, as well as the obligation amount that the buyer has confirmed as valid to the third party that is outstanding at the end of the reporting period, a rollforward of that amount, and a description of where that amount is presented in the balance sheet. This amendment is effective in 2023, except for the amendment on rollforward information which is effective in 2024, with early adoption permitted. This guidance should be applied retrospectively to each period in which a balance sheet is presented, except for the amendment on rollforward information, which should be applied prospectively. We are currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of this new guidance will have on our Financial Statements and will add necessary disclosures upon adoption.

Note 3. Firehouse Acquisition
We acquired Firehouse Subs on December 15, 2021 (the “Firehouse Acquisition”) which complements RBI's existing portfolio. Like RBI's other brands, the Firehouse Subs brand is managed independently, while benefiting from the global scale and resources of RBI. The Firehouse Acquisition was accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting.
Total consideration in connection with the Firehouse Acquisition was $1,016 million. The consideration was funded through cash on hand and $533 million of incremental borrowings under our Term Loan Facility - See Note 9, Long-Term Debt.
Fees and expenses related to the Firehouse Acquisition and related financings totaled $1 million during 2022 and $18 million during 2021, consisting primarily of professional fees and compensation related expenses which are classified as general and administrative expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.

69
Table of Contents
During 2022, we adjusted our preliminary estimate of the fair value of net assets acquired. The final allocation of consideration to the net tangible and intangible assets acquired is presented in the table below (in millions):
December 15, 2021
Total current assets	$	21 	
Property and equipment	4 	
Firehouse Subs brand
816 	
Franchise agreements	19 	
Operating lease assets	9 	
Total liabilities	(48)	
Total identifiable net assets	821 	
Goodwill	195 	
Total consideration	$	1,016 	
 

The adjustments to the preliminary estimate of net assets acquired and a decrease in total consideration resulted in a corresponding decrease in estimated goodwill due to the following changes to preliminary estimates of fair values and allocation of purchase price (in millions):
Increase (Decrease) in Goodwill
Change in:	
Operating lease assets	$	(9)	
Firehouse Subs brand
(48)	
Franchise agreements	(19)	
Total liabilities	35 	
Total consideration	(17)	
   Total decrease in goodwill	$	(58)	
 
The Firehouse Subs brand has been assigned an indefinite life and, therefore, will not be amortized, but rather tested annually for impairment. Franchise agreements have a weighted average amortization period of 18 years. Goodwill attributable to the Firehouse Acquisition will be deductible and amortized for tax purposes. Goodwill is considered to represent the value associated with the workforce and synergies anticipated to be realized as a combined company. We have allocated goodwill related to the Firehouse Acquisition to our FHS operating segment and to one reporting unit for goodwill impairment testing purposes. In the event that actual results vary from the estimates or assumptions used in the valuation or allocation process, we may be required to record an impairment charge or an increase in depreciation or amortization in future periods, or both. We completed our impairment reviews for goodwill and the Firehouse Subs brand as of October 1, 2022 and no impairment resulted.
The results of operations of Firehouse Subs have been included in our consolidated financial statements from the acquisition date of December 15, 2021. The Firehouse Acquisition is not material to our consolidated financial statements, and therefore, supplemental pro forma financial information related to the acquisition is not included herein.
70
Table of Contents

Note 4. Earnings per Share
An economic interest in Partnership common equity is held by the holders of Class B exchangeable limited partnership units (the “Partnership exchangeable units”), which is reflected as a noncontrolling interest in our equity. See Note 13, Shareholders’ Equity.
Basic and diluted earnings per share is computed using the weighted average number of shares outstanding for the period. We apply the treasury stock method to determine the dilutive weighted average common shares represented by outstanding equity awards, unless the effect of their inclusion is anti-dilutive. The diluted earnings per share calculation assumes conversion of 100% of the Partnership exchangeable units under the “if converted” method. Accordingly, the numerator is also adjusted to include the earnings allocated to the holders of noncontrolling interests.
The following table summarizes the basic and diluted earnings per share calculations (in millions, except per share amounts):
2022		2021		2020
Numerator:					
Net income attributable to common shareholders - basic	$	1,008 			$	838 			$	486 	
Add: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests	471 			411 			262 	
Net income available to common shareholders and noncontrolling interests - diluted	$	1,479 			$	1,249 			$	748 	
Denominator:					
Weighted average common shares - basic	307 			310 			302 	
Exchange of noncontrolling interests for common shares (Note 12)	144 			151 			162 	
Effect of other dilutive securities	4 			3 			4 	
Weighted average common shares - diluted	455 			464 			468 	
Basic earnings per share (a)	$	3.28 			$	2.71 			$	1.61 	
Diluted earnings per share (a)	$	3.25 			$	2.69 			$	1.60 	
Anti-dilutive securities outstanding	6 			3 			6 	
 
(a)Earnings per share may not recalculate exactly as it is calculated based on unrounded numbers.
Note 5. Property and Equipment, net
Property and equipment, net, consist of the following (in millions):
 	As of December 31,
 	2022		2021
Land	$	985 			$	1,011 	
Buildings and improvements	1,165 			1,200 	
Restaurant equipment	192 			193 	
Furniture, fixtures, and other	300 			257 	
Finance leases	317 			323 	
Construction in progress	52 			30 	
3,011 			3,014 	
Accumulated depreciation and amortization	(1,061)			(979)	
Property and equipment, net	$	1,950 			$	2,035 	
 
Depreciation and amortization expense on property and equipment totaled $135 million for 2022, $148 million for 2021 and $140 million for 2020.
Included in our property and equipment, net at December 31, 2022 and 2021 are $227 million and $246 million, respectively, of assets leased under finance leases (mostly buildings and improvements), net of accumulated depreciation and amortization of $90 million and $77 million, respectively.
71
Table of Contents
Note 6. Intangible Assets, net and Goodwill
Intangible assets, net and goodwill consist of the following (in millions):
As of December 31,
2022		2021
Gross		Accumulated Amortization		Net		Gross		Accumulated Amortization		Net
Identifiable assets subject to amortization:											
   Franchise agreements	$	720 			$	(313)			$	407 			$	722 			$	(290)			$	432 	
   Favorable leases	90 			(57)			33 			104 			(63)			41 	
      Subtotal	810 			(370)			440 			826 			(353)			473 	
Indefinite-lived intangible assets:											
   Tim Hortons brand
$	6,293 			$	— 			$	6,293 			$	6,695 			$	— 			$	6,695 	
   Burger King brand
2,088 			— 			2,088 			2,126 			— 			2,126 	
   Popeyes brand
1,355 			— 			1,355 			1,355 			— 			1,355 	
Firehouse Subs brand
815 			— 			815 			768 			— 			768 	
      Subtotal	10,551 			— 			10,551 			10,944 			— 			10,944 	
Intangible assets, net					$	10,991 							$	11,417 	
Goodwill											
   Tim Hortons segment	$	4,059 							$	4,306 					
   Burger King segment	590 							601 					
   Popeyes segment	846 							846 					
   Firehouse segment	193 							253 					
      Total	$	5,688 							$	6,006 					
 
Amortization expense on intangible assets totaled $39 million for 2022, $41 million for 2021, and $43 million for 2020. The change in the franchise agreements, brands and goodwill balances during 2022 was due to the impact of foreign currency translation and the impact of final adjustments to the preliminary allocation of consideration to the net tangible and intangible assets acquired in the Firehouse Acquisition.
As of December 31, 2022, the estimated future amortization expense on identifiable assets subject to amortization is as follows (in millions):
Twelve-months ended December 31,	Amount
2023	$	37 	
2024	36 	
2025	34 	
2026	34 	
2027	34 	
Thereafter	265 	
Total	$	440 	
 

72
Table of Contents

Note 7. Equity Method Investments
The aggregate carrying amount of our equity method investments was $167 million and $194 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, and is included as a component of Other assets, net in our consolidated balance sheets.
Except for the following equity method investments, no quoted market prices are available for our other equity method investments. The aggregate market value of our 15.2% equity interest in Carrols Restaurant Group, Inc. (“Carrols”) based on the quoted market price on December 31, 2022 is approximately $13 million. The aggregate market value of our 9.4% equity interest in BK Brasil Operação e Assessoria a Restaurantes S.A. based on the quoted market price on December 31, 2022 is approximately $27 million. The aggregate market value of our 3.8% equity interest in TH International Limited based on the quoted market price on December 31, 2022 was approximately $16 million. We have evaluated recent declines in the market value of these equity method investments and recognized an impairment of $15 million as a result of a sustained decline in Carrols' share price and market capitalization during 2022.
We have equity interests in entities that own or franchise Tim Hortons, Burger King and Popeyes restaurants. Franchise and property revenue recognized from franchisees that are owned or franchised by entities in which we have an equity interest consist of the following (in millions):

2022		2021		2020
Revenues from affiliates:					
Royalties	$	353 			$	350 			$	239 	
Advertising revenues	71 			67 			50 	
Property revenues	31 			32 			32 	
Franchise fees and other revenue	18 			21 			14 	
Sales	18 			10 			3 	
Total	$	491 			$	480 			$	338 	
 
At December 31, 2022 and 2021, we had $42 million and $48 million, respectively, of accounts receivable, net from our equity method investments which were recorded in accounts and notes receivable, net in our consolidated balance sheets.
With respect to our TH business, the most significant equity method investment is our 50.0% joint venture interest with The Wendy’s Company (the “TIMWEN Partnership”), which jointly holds real estate underlying Canadian combination restaurants. Distributions received from this joint venture were $13 million, $16 million and $8 million during 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
We recognized rent expense associated with the TIMWEN Partnership of $19 million, $18 million, and $15 million during 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
(Income) loss from equity method investments reflects our share of investee net income or loss, non-cash dilution gains or losses from changes in our ownership interests in equity investees and impairment charges.

73
Table of Contents


Note 8. Other Accrued Liabilities and Other Liabilities
Other accrued liabilities (current) and other liabilities, net (non-current) consist of the following (in millions):

 	As of December 31,
 	2022		2021
Current:			
Dividend payable	$	243 			$	241 	
Interest payable	89 			63 	
Accrued compensation and benefits	124 			99 	
Taxes payable	190 			106 	
Deferred income	43 			48 	
Accrued advertising expenses	37 			43 	
Restructuring and other provisions	29 			90 	
Current portion of operating lease liabilities	137 			140 	
Other	109 			117 	
Other accrued liabilities	$	1,001 			$	947 	
Non-current:			
Taxes payable	$	139 			$	533 	
Contract liabilities (see Note 15)	540 			531 	
Derivatives liabilities	34 			575 	
Unfavorable leases	50 			65 	
Accrued pension	40 			47 	
Deferred income	44 			37 	
Other	25 			34 	
Other liabilities, net	$	872 			$	1,822 	
 
Note 9. Long-Term Debt
Long-term debt consists of the following (in millions):
 	As of December 31,
 	2022		2021
Term Loan B	$	5,190 			$	5,243 	
Term Loan A	1,250 			1,250 	
3.875% First Lien Senior Notes due 2028
1,550 			1,550 	
3.50% First Lien Senior Notes due 2029
750 			750 	
5.75% First Lien Senior Notes due 2025
500 			500 	
4.375% Second Lien Senior Notes due 2028
750 			750 	
4.00% Second Lien Senior Notes due 2030
2,900 			2,900 	
TH Facility and other	155 			173 	
Less: unamortized deferred financing costs and deferred issuance discount	(111)			(138)	
Total debt, net	12,934 			12,978 	
Less: current maturities of debt	(95)			(62)	
Total long-term debt	$	12,839 			$	12,916 	
 

74
Table of Contents
Credit Facilities
On December 13, 2021, two of our subsidiaries (the “Borrowers”) entered into a fifth incremental facility amendment and a sixth amendment (the “2021 Amendment”) to the credit agreement governing our senior secured term loan A facility (the “Term Loan A”), our senior secured term loan B facility (the “Term Loan B” and together with the Term Loan A the “Term Loan Facilities”) and our $1,000 million senior secured revolving credit facility (including revolving loans, swingline loans and letters of credit) (the “Revolving Credit Facility” and together with the Term Loan Facilities, the “Credit Facilities”). The 2021 Amendment increased the existing Term Loan A to $1,250 million and extended the maturity date of the Term Loan A and Revolving Credit Facility to December 13, 2026 (subject to earlier maturity in specified circumstances). The security and guarantees under the Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan A are the same as those under the existing facilities. The proceeds from the increase in the Term Loan A were used with cash on hand to complete the Firehouse Acquisition. In connection with the 2021 Amendment, we capitalized approximately $12 million in debt issuance costs.
The 2021 Amendment also amended the interest rate applicable to the Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan A to incorporate SOFR. The interest rate applicable to the Term Loan A and Revolving Credit Facility is, at our option, either (a) a base rate, subject to a floor of 1.00%, plus an applicable margin varying from 0.00% to 0.50%, or (b) Adjusted Term SOFR (Adjusted Term SOFR is calculated as Term SOFR plus a 0.10% adjustment), subject to a floor of 0.00%, plus an applicable margin varying between 0.75% and 1.50%, in each case, determined by reference to a net first lien leverage-based pricing grid. The commitment fee on the unused portion of the Revolving Credit Facility is 0.15%. At December 31, 2022, the interest rate on the Term Loan A was 5.44%. The principal amount of the Term Loan A amortizes in quarterly installments equal to $8 million beginning March 31, 2023 until September 30, 2024 and thereafter in quarterly installments equal to $16 million until maturity, with the balance payable at maturity. The 2021 Amendment includes amendments to certain negative covenants to provide increased flexibility. The 2021 Amendment made no other material changes to the terms of the Credit Agreement.
The maturity date of our Term Loan B is November 19, 2026 and the interest rate applicable to our Term Loan B is, at our option, either (a) a base rate, subject to a floor of 1.00%, plus an applicable margin of 0.75%, or (b) a Eurocurrency rate, subject to a floor of 0.00%, plus an applicable margin of 1.75%. At December 31, 2022, the interest rate on the Term Loan B was 6.13%. The principal amount of the Term Loan B amortizes in quarterly installments equal to $13 million until maturity, with the balance payable at maturity.
Revolving Credit Facility
As of December 31, 2022, we had no amounts outstanding under our Revolving Credit Facility. Funds available under the Revolving Credit Facility may be used to repay other debt, finance debt or share repurchases, to fund acquisitions or capital expenditures and for other general corporate purposes. We have a $125 million letter of credit sublimit as part of the Revolving Credit Facility, which reduces our borrowing availability thereunder by the cumulative amount of outstanding letters of credit. The interest rate applicable to amounts drawn under each letter of credit is 0.75% to 1.50%, depending on our net first lien leverage ratio. As of December 31, 2022, we had $2 million of letters of credit issued against the Revolving Credit Facility, and our borrowing availability was $998 million.
Obligations under the Credit Facilities are guaranteed on a senior secured basis, jointly and severally, by the direct parent company of one of the Borrowers and substantially all of its Canadian and U.S. subsidiaries, including The TDL Group Corp., Burger King Company LLC, Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen, Inc., FRG, LLC and substantially all of their respective Canadian and U.S. subsidiaries (the “Credit Guarantors”). Amounts borrowed under the Credit Facilities are secured on a first priority basis by a perfected security interest in substantially all of the present and future property (subject to certain exceptions) of each Borrower and Credit Guarantor.
3.875% First Lien Senior Notes due 2028
On September 24, 2019, the Borrowers entered into an indenture (the “3.875% First Lien Senior Notes Indenture”) in connection with the issuance of $750 million of 3.875% first lien senior notes due January 15, 2028 (the “2019 3.875% Senior Notes”). On July 6, 2021, the Borrowers issued an additional $800 million under the 3.875% First Lien Senior Notes Indenture (the “Additional Notes” and together with the 2019 3.875% Senior Notes, the “3.875% First Lien Senior Notes due 2028”). No principal payments are due until maturity and interest is paid semi-annually. The Additional Notes were priced at 100.250% of their face value. The net proceeds from the offering of the Additional Notes were used to redeem the remaining $775 million principal amount outstanding of 4.25% first lien senior notes, plus any accrued and unpaid interest thereon, and pay related redemption premiums, fees and expenses. In connection with the issuance of the Additional Notes, we capitalized approximately $7 million in debt issuance costs. In connection with the redemption of the remaining $775 million principal amount outstanding of the 4.25% first lien senior notes, we recorded a loss on early extinguishment of debt of $11 million that primarily reflects the payment of redemption premiums and the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs.
75
Table of Contents
Obligations under the 3.875% First Lien Senior Notes due 2028 are guaranteed on a senior secured basis, jointly and severally, by the Borrowers and substantially all of the Borrower's Canadian and U.S. subsidiaries, including The TDL Group Corp., Burger King Company LLC, Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen, Inc., FRG, LLC and substantially all of their respective Canadian and U.S. subsidiaries (the “Note Guarantors”). The 3.875% First Lien Senior Notes due 2028 are first lien senior secured obligations and rank equal in right of payment with all of the existing and future first lien senior debt of the Borrowers and Note Guarantors, including borrowings and guarantees under our Credit Facilities.
The 3.875% First Lien Senior Notes due 2028 may be redeemed in whole or in part at any time at the redemption prices set forth in the 3.875% First Lien Senior Notes Indenture, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, at the date of redemption. The 3.875% First Lien Senior Notes Indenture also contains optional redemption provisions related to tender offers, change of control and equity offerings, among others.
5.75% First Lien Senior Notes due 2025
On April 7, 2020, the Borrowers entered into an indenture (the “5.75% First Lien Senior Notes Indenture”) in connection with the issuance of $500 million of 5.75% first lien notes due April 15, 2025 (the “5.75% First Lien Senior Notes due 2025”). No principal payments are due until maturity and interest is paid semi-annually. The net proceeds from the offering of the 5.75% First Lien Senior Notes due 2025 were used for general corporate purposes. In connection with the issuance of the 5.75% First Lien Senior Notes due 2025, we capitalized approximately $10 million in debt issuance costs.
Obligations under the 5.75% First Lien Senior Notes due 2025 are guaranteed on a senior secured basis, jointly and severally, by the Note Guarantors. The 5.75% First Lien Senior Notes due 2025 are first lien senior secured obligations and rank equal in right of payment with all of the existing and future first lien senior debt of the Borrowers and Note Guarantors, including borrowings and guarantees of the Credit Facilities.
Our 5.75% First Lien Senior Notes due 2025 may be redeemed in whole or in part at any time at the redemption prices set forth in the 5.75% First Lien Senior Notes Indenture, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, at the date of redemption. The 5.75% First Lien Senior Notes Indenture also contains optional redemption provisions related to tender offers, change of control and equity offerings, among others.
3.50% First Lien Senior Notes due 2029
On November 9, 2020, the Borrowers entered into an indenture (the “3.50% First Lien Senior Notes Indenture”) in connection with the issuance of $750 million of 3.50% first lien notes due February 15, 2029 (the “3.50% First Lien Senior Notes due 2029”). No principal payments are due until maturity and interest is paid semi-annually. The proceeds from the offering of the 3.50% First Lien Senior Notes due 2029, together with cash on hand, were used to redeem $725 million of 4.25% first lien senior notes and pay related redemption premiums, fees and expenses. In connection with the issuance of the 3.50% First Lien Senior Notes due 2029, we capitalized approximately $7 million in debt issuance costs. In connection with the redemption of the 4.25% first lien senior notes, we recorded a loss on early extinguishment of debt of $19 million that primarily reflects the payment of premiums to redeem the notes and the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs.
Obligations under the 3.50% First Lien Senior Notes due 2029 are guaranteed on a senior secured basis, jointly and severally, by the Note Guarantors. The 3.50% First Lien Senior Notes due 2029 are first lien senior secured obligations and rank equal in right of payment with all of the existing and future first lien senior debt of the Borrowers and Note Guarantors, including borrowings and guarantees of the Credit Facilities.
Our 3.50% First Lien Senior Notes due 2029 may be redeemed in whole or in part, on or after February 15, 2024 at the redemption prices set forth in the 3.50% First Lien Senior Notes Indenture, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, at the date of redemption. The 3.50% First Lien Senior Notes Indenture also contains optional redemption provisions related to tender offers, change of control and equity offerings, among others.
4.375% Second Lien Senior Notes due 2028
On November 19, 2019, the Borrowers entered into an indenture (the “4.375% Second Lien Senior Notes Indenture”) in connection with the issuance of $750 million of 4.375% second lien senior notes due January 15, 2028 (the “4.375% Second Lien Senior Notes due 2028”). No principal payments are due until maturity and interest is paid semi-annually.
Obligations under the 4.375% Second Lien Senior Notes due 2028 are guaranteed on a second priority senior secured basis, jointly and severally, by the Note Guarantors. The 4.375% Second Lien Senior Notes due 2028 are second lien senior secured obligations and rank equal in right of payment with all of the existing and future senior debt of the Borrowers and Note Guarantors, including borrowings and guarantees of the Credit Facilities, and effectively subordinated to all of the existing and future first lien senior debt of the Borrowers and Note Guarantors.
76
Table of Contents
Our 4.375% Second Lien Senior Notes due 2028 may be redeemed in whole or in part at any time at the redemption prices set forth in the 4.375% Second Lien Senior Notes Indenture, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, at the date of redemption. The 4.375% Second Lien Senior Notes Indenture also contains redemption provisions related to tender offers, change of control and equity offerings, among others.
4.00% Second Lien Senior Notes due 2030
During 2020, the Borrowers entered into an indenture (the “4.00% Second Lien Senior Notes Indenture”) in connection with the issuance of $2,900 million of 4.00% second lien notes due October 15, 2030 (the “4.00% Second Lien Senior Notes due 2030”). No principal payments are due until maturity and interest is paid semi-annually. The proceeds from the offering of the 4.00% Second Lien Senior Notes due 2030 were used to redeem the entire outstanding principal balance of $2,800 million of 5.00% second lien senior notes due October 15, 2025 (the “5.00% Second Lien Senior Notes due 2025”), pay related redemption premiums, fees and expenses. In connection with the issuance of the 4.00% Second Lien Senior Notes due 2030, we capitalized approximately $26 million in debt issuance costs. In connection with the full redemption of the 5.00% Second Lien Senior Notes due 2025, we recorded a loss on early extinguishment of debt of $79 million that primarily reflects the payment of premiums to redeem the notes and the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs.
Obligations under the 4.00% Second Lien Senior Notes due 2030 are guaranteed on a second priority senior secured basis, jointly and severally, by the Note Guarantors. The 4.00% Second Lien Senior Notes due 2030 are second lien senior secured obligations and rank equal in right of payment will all of the existing and future senior debt of the Borrowers and Note Guarantors and effectively subordinated to all of the existing and future first lien senior debt of the Borrowers and Note Guarantors.
Our 4.00% Second Lien Senior Notes due 2030 may be redeemed in whole or in part, on or after October 15, 2025 at the redemption prices set forth in the 4.00% Second Lien Senior Notes Indenture, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, at the date of redemption. The 4.00% Second Lien Senior Notes Indenture also contains optional redemption provisions related to tender offers, change of control and equity offerings, among others.
Restrictions and Covenants
Our Credit Facilities, as well as the 3.875% First Lien Senior Notes Indenture, 5.75% First Lien Senior Notes Indenture, 3.50% First Lien Senior Notes Indenture, 4.375% Second Lien Senior Notes Indenture and 4.00% Second Lien Senior Notes Indenture (all together the “Senior Notes Indentures”) contain a number of customary affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, limit or restrict our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to: incur additional indebtedness; incur liens; engage in mergers, consolidations, liquidations and dissolutions; sell assets; pay dividends and make other payments in respect of capital stock; make investments, loans and advances; pay or modify the terms of certain indebtedness; and engage in certain transactions with affiliates. In addition, under the Credit Facilities, the Borrowers are not permitted to exceed a first lien senior secured leverage ratio of 6.50 to 1.00 when, as of the end of any fiscal quarter beginning with the first fiscal quarter of 2020, (1) any amounts are outstanding under the Term Loan A and/or (2) the sum of (i) the amount of letters of credit outstanding exceeding $50 million (other than those that are cash collateralized); (ii) outstanding amounts under the Revolving Credit Facility and (iii) outstanding amounts of swing line loans, exceeds 30.0% of the commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility.
The restrictions under the Credit Facilities and the Senior Notes Indentures have resulted in substantially all of our consolidated assets being restricted.
As of December 31, 2022, we were in compliance with applicable financial debt covenants under the Credit Facilities and the Senior Notes Indentures and there were no limitations on our ability to draw on the remaining availability under our Revolving Credit Facility.
TH Facility
One of our subsidiaries entered into a non-revolving delayed drawdown term credit facility in a total aggregate principal amount of C$225 million with a maturity date of October 4, 2025 (the “TH Facility”). The interest rate applicable to the TH Facility is the Canadian Bankers’ Acceptance rate plus an applicable margin equal to 1.40% or the Prime Rate plus an applicable margin equal to 0.40%, at our option. Obligations under the TH Facility are guaranteed by four of our subsidiaries, and amounts borrowed under the TH Facility are secured by certain parcels of real estate. As of December 31, 2022, we had approximately C$203 million outstanding under the TH Facility with a weighted average interest rate of 6.07%.

77
Table of Contents
RE Facility
One of our subsidiaries entered into a non-revolving delayed drawdown term credit facility in a total aggregate principal amount of $50 million with a maturity date of October 12, 2028 (the “RE Facility”). The interest rate applicable to the RE Facility is, at our option, either (i) a base rate, subject to a floor of 0.50%, plus an applicable margin of 0.50% or (ii) Adjusted Term SOFR (Adjusted Term SOFR is calculated as Term SOFR plus a margin based on duration), subject to a floor of 0.00%, plus an applicable margin of 1.50%. Obligations under the RE Facility are guaranteed by four of our subsidiaries, and amounts borrowed under the RE Facility are secured by certain parcels of real estate. As of December 31, 2022, we had approximately $2 million outstanding under the RE Facility with a weighted average interest rate of 5.97%.
Debt Issuance Costs
During 2021 and 2020, we incurred aggregate deferred financing costs of $19 million and $43 million, respectively. We did not incur any significant deferred financing costs during 2022.
Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt
During 2021, we recorded an $11 million loss on early extinguishment of debt that primarily reflects the payment of redemption premiums and the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs in connection with the redemption of the remaining $775 million principal amount outstanding of the 4.25% first lien senior notes. During 2020, we recorded a $98 million loss on early extinguishment of debt that primarily reflects the payment of premiums and the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs in connection with the full redemption of the 5.00% Second Lien Senior Notes due 2025 and the partial redemption of the 4.25% first lien senior notes.
Maturities
The aggregate maturities of our long-term debt as of December 31, 2022 are as follows (in millions):
Year Ended December 31,	Principal Amount
2023	$	97 	
2024	107 	
2025	741 	
2026	6,148 	
2027	— 	
Thereafter	5,952 	
Total	$	13,045 	
 
Interest Expense, net
Interest expense, net consists of the following (in millions):
2022		2021		2020
Debt (a)	$	493 			$	461 			$	471 	
Finance lease obligations	19 			20 			20 	
Amortization of deferred financing costs and debt issuance discount	28 			27 			26 	
Interest income	(7)			(3)			(9)	
Interest expense, net	$	533 			$	505 			$	508 	
 
(a)Amount includes $56 million, $45 million and $69 million benefit during 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, related to the quarterly net settlements of our cross-currency rate swaps and amortization of the Excluded Component as defined in Note 12, Derivative Instruments.
78
Table of Contents

Note 10. Leases
As of December 31, 2022, we leased or subleased 4,978 restaurant properties to franchisees and 147 non-restaurant properties to third parties under operating leases, direct financing leases and sales-type leases where we are the lessor. Initial lease terms generally range from 10 to 20 years. Most leases to franchisees provide for fixed monthly payments and many provide for future rent escalations and renewal options. Certain leases also include provisions for variable rent, determined as a percentage of sales, generally when annual sales exceed specific levels. Lessees typically bear the cost of maintenance, insurance and property taxes.
We lease land, buildings, equipment, office space and warehouse space from third parties. Land and building leases generally have an initial term of 10 to 20 years, while land-only lease terms can extend longer, and most leases provide for fixed monthly payments. Many of these leases provide for future rent escalations and renewal options. Certain leases also include provisions for variable rent payments, determined as a percentage of sales, generally when annual sales exceed specified levels. Most leases also obligate us to pay, as lessee, variable lease cost related to maintenance, insurance and property taxes.
Company as Lessor
Assets leased to franchisees and others under operating leases where we are the lessor and which are included within our property and equipment, net are as follows (in millions):
 	As of December 31,
 	2022		2021
Land	$	880 			$	899 	
Buildings and improvements	1,129 			1,180 	
Restaurant equipment	16 			18 	
2,025 			2,097 	
Accumulated depreciation and amortization	(625)			(587)	
Property and equipment leased, net	$	1,400 			$	1,510 	
 
Our net investment in direct financing and sales-type leases is as follows (in millions):
 	As of December 31,
 	2022		2021
Future rents to be received:			
Future minimum lease receipts	$	112 			$	113 	
Contingent rents (a)	5 			7 	
Estimated unguaranteed residual value	6 			5 	
Unearned income	(36)			(40)	
87 			85 	
Current portion included within accounts receivable	(5)			(5)	
Net investment in property leased to franchisees	$	82 			$	80 	
 
(a)Amounts represent estimated contingent rents recorded in connection with the acquisition method of accounting.


79
Table of Contents
Property revenues are comprised primarily of rental income from operating leases and earned income on direct financing leases with franchisees as follows (in millions):
2022		2021		2020
Rental income:					
Minimum lease payments	$	410 			$	455 			$	445 	
Variable lease payments	395 			329 			262 	
Amortization of favorable and unfavorable income lease contracts, net	1 			3 			6 	
Subtotal - lease income from operating leases	806 			787 			713 	
Earned income on direct financing and sales-type leases	7 			6 			5 	
Total property revenues	$	813 			$	793 			$	718 	
 

Company as Lessee
Lease cost and other information associated with these lease commitments is as follows (in millions):
Lease Cost (Income)
2022		2021		2020
Operating lease cost	$	202 			$	202 			$	199 	
Operating lease variable lease cost	196 			193 			177 	
Finance lease cost:					
Amortization of right-of-use assets	27 			31 			29 	
Interest on lease liabilities	19 			20 			20 	
Sublease income	(603)			(587)			(534)	
Total lease cost (income)	$	(159)			$	(141)			$	(109)	
 
Lease Term and Discount Rate as of December 31, 2022 and 2021
As of December 31,
2022		2021
Weighted-average remaining lease term (in years):				
Operating leases		9.8 years		10.1 years
Finance leases		11.5 years		11.4 years
Weighted-average discount rate:				
Operating leases		5.5 	%		5.5 	%
Finance leases		5.8 	%		6.0 	%
 

Other Information for 2022, 2021 and 2020
2022		2021		2020
Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities:						
Operating cash flows from operating leases		$	198 			$	200 			$	200 	
Operating cash flows from finance leases		$	19 			$	20 			$	20 	
Financing cash flows from finance leases		$	31 			$	31 			$	29 	
Supplemental noncash information on lease liabilities arising from obtaining right-of-use assets:						
Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for new finance lease obligations		$	22 			$	52 			$	59 	
Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for new operating lease obligations		$	133 			$	133 			$	118 	
 


80
Table of Contents
As of December 31, 2022, future minimum lease receipts and commitments are as follows (in millions):
 	Lease Receipts		Lease Commitments (a)
 	Direct
Financing
and Sales-Type Leases		Operating
Leases		Finance
Leases		Operating
Leases
2023	$	8 			$	355 			$	49 			$	195 	
2024	8 			332 			48 			184 	
2025	8 			306 			44 			170 	
2026	7 			276 			41 			153 	
2027	7 			246 			38 			139 	
Thereafter	74 			1,217 			244 			697 	
Total minimum receipts / payments	$	112 			$	2,732 			464 			1,538 	
Less amount representing interest					(121)			(374)	
Present value of minimum lease payments					343 			1,164 	
Current portion of lease obligations					(32)			(137)	
Long-term portion of lease obligations					$	311 			$	1,027 	
 
(a)Minimum lease payments have not been reduced by minimum sublease rentals of $1,663 million due in the future under non-cancelable subleases.

Note 11. Income Taxes
Income before income taxes, classified by source of income, is as follows (in millions):
2022		2021		2020
Canadian	$	444 			$	457 			$	200 	
Foreign	921 			906 			616 	
Income before income taxes	$	1,365 			$	1,363 			$	816 	
 

Income tax (benefit) expense attributable to income from continuing operations consists of the following (in millions):
2022		2021		2020
Current:					
Canadian	$	(284)			$	16 			$	45 	
U.S. Federal	105 			(10)			125 	
U.S. state, net of federal income tax benefit	26 			25 			26 	
Other Foreign	96 			84 			78 	
$	(57)			$	115 			$	274 	
Deferred:					
Canadian	$	20 			$	32 			$	(67)	
U.S. Federal	(79)			(37)			(82)	
U.S. state, net of federal income tax benefit	(9)			(7)			(27)	
Other Foreign	8 			7 			(32)	
$	(60)			$	(5)			$	(208)	
Income tax expense (benefit)	$	(117)			$	110 			$	66 	
 
81
Table of Contents
The statutory rate reconciles to the effective income tax rate as follows:

2022		2021		2020
Statutory rate	26.5 	%		26.5 	%		26.5 	%
Costs and taxes related to foreign operations	3.8 			3.5 			9.6 	
Foreign exchange gain (loss)	— 			— 			0.5 	
Foreign tax rate differential	(13.7)			(13.9)			(15.6)	
Change in valuation allowance	(0.7)			1.1 			1.2 	
Change in accrual for tax uncertainties	(26.7)			(7.4)			3.9 	
Intercompany financing	1.2 			(3.5)			(6.1)	
Impact of Tax Act	— 			— 			(7.8)	
Swiss Tax Reform	— 			— 			(5.1)	
Benefit from stock option exercises	(0.1)			(0.8)			(0.3)	
Litigation settlements and reserves	— 			1.4 			— 	
Other	1.1 			1.2 			1.2 	
Effective income tax rate	(8.6)	%		8.1 	%		8.0 	%
 
In December 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”) that significantly revised the U.S. tax code. During 2020, various guidance was issued by the U.S. tax authorities relating to the Tax Act and, after review of such guidance, we recorded a favorable adjustment to our deferred tax assets of $64 million related to a tax attribute carryforward, which decreased our 2020 effective tax rate by 7.8%.
In a referendum held on May 19, 2019, Swiss voters adopted the Federal Act on Tax Reform and AVS Financing (“TRAF”), under which certain long-standing preferential cantonal tax regimes were abolished effective January 1, 2020, which the canton of Zug formally adopted in November 2019. Company subsidiaries in the canton of Zug were subjected to TRAF and therefore the TRAF impacted our consolidated results of operations during 2020. In 2020, a deferred tax asset was recorded due to an election made under TRAF by one of our Swiss subsidiaries. The amounts impacting income tax expense for the effects of the changes from the TRAF was approximately $41 million in 2020, which decreased our 2020 effective tax rate by approximately 5.1%.
Companies subject to the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income provision (GILTI) have the option to account for the GILTI tax as a period cost if and when incurred, or to recognize deferred taxes for outside basis temporary differences expected to reverse as GILTI. We have elected to account for GILTI as a period cost.
Income tax (benefit) expense allocated to continuing operations and amounts separately allocated to other items was (in millions):

2022		2021		2020
Income tax (benefit) expense from continuing operations	$	(117)			$	110 			$	66 	
Cash flow hedge in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)	153 			72 			(64)	
Net investment hedge in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)	77 			(15)			(60)	
Foreign Currency Translation in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)	— 			(4)			12 	
Pension liability in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)	2 			3 			(3)	
Total	$	115 			$	166 			$	(49)	
 
82
Table of Contents
The significant components of deferred income tax (benefit) expense attributable to income from continuing operations are as follows (in millions):

2022		2021		2020
Deferred income tax expense (benefit)	$	79 			$	(22)			$	(230)	
Change in valuation allowance	(143)			14 			22 	
Change in effective U.S. state income tax rate	3 			3 			1 	
Change in effective foreign income tax rate	1 			— 			(1)	
Total	$	(60)			$	(5)			$	(208)	
 
The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are presented below (in millions):

 	As of December 31,
 	2022		2021
Deferred tax assets:			
Accounts and notes receivable	$	8 			$	4 	
Accrued employee benefits	56 			48 	
Leases	105 			115 	
Operating lease liabilities	304 			317 	
Liabilities not currently deductible for tax	403 			346 	
Tax loss and credit carryforwards	316 			517 	
Derivatives	— 			164 	
Other	9 			(1)	
Total gross deferred tax assets	1,201 			1,510 	
Valuation allowance	(194)			(356)	
Net deferred tax assets	1,007 			1,154 	
Less deferred tax liabilities:			
Property and equipment, principally due to differences in depreciation	15 			15 	
Intangible assets	1,707 			1,751 	
Leases	125 			129 	
Operating lease assets	281 			295 	
Statutory impairment	27 			29 	
Derivatives	65 			— 	
Outside basis difference	13 			38 	
Total gross deferred tax liabilities	2,233 			2,257 	
Net deferred tax liability	$	1,226 			$	1,103 	
 
The valuation allowance had a net decrease of $162 million during 2022 primarily due to the change in estimates related to derivatives and the utilization of foreign tax credits and capital losses.
83
Table of Contents
Changes in the valuation allowance are as follows (in millions):

2022		2021		2020
Beginning balance	$	356 			$	364 			$	329 	
Change in estimates recorded to deferred income tax expense	(9)			14 			19 	
Changes in losses and credits	(134)			— 			3 	
(Reductions) additions related to other comprehensive income	(19)			(22)			13 	
Ending balance	$	194 			$	356 			$	364 	
 

The gross amount and expiration dates of operating loss and tax credit carry-forwards as of December 31, 2022 are as follows (in millions):

Amount		Expiration Date
Canadian net operating loss carryforwards	$	521 			2036-2042
Canadian capital loss carryforwards	153 			Indefinite
Canadian tax credits	4 			2023-2041
U.S. state net operating loss carryforwards	546 			2023-2042
U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards	19 			Indefinite
U.S. capital loss carryforwards	16 			2040
U.S. foreign tax credits	69 			2023-2031
Other foreign net operating loss carryforwards	249 			Indefinite
Other foreign net operating loss carryforwards	41 			2023-2038
Other foreign capital loss carryforward	27 			Indefinite
Total	$	1,645 			
 
We are generally permanently reinvested on any potential outside basis differences except for unremitted earnings and profits and thus do not record a deferred tax liability for such outside basis differences. To the extent of unremitted earning and profits, we generally review various factors including, but not limited to, forecasts and budgets of financial needs of cash for working capital, liquidity and expected cash requirements to fund our various obligations and record deferred taxes to the extent we expect to distribute.
We had $139 million and $437 million of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively, which if recognized, would favorably affect the effective income tax rate. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows (in millions):

2022		2021		2020
Beginning balance	$	437 			$	497 			$	506 	
Additions for tax positions related to the current year	(5)			9 			9 	
Additions for tax positions of prior years	3 			23 			7 	
Reductions for tax positions of prior years	(15)			(5)			(25)	
Additions for settlement	— 			7 			— 	
Reductions due to statute expiration	(281)			(94)			— 	
Ending balance	$	139 			$	437 			$	497 	
 
Although the timing of the resolution, settlement, and closure of any audits is highly uncertain, it is reasonably possible that the balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits could significantly change in the next 12 months. During the twelve months beginning January 1, 2023, it is reasonably possible we will reduce unrecognized tax benefits by up to approximately $48 million due to the expiration of statutes of limitations, anticipated closure of various tax matters currently under examination, and settlements with tax authorities all being possibly impacted in multiple jurisdictions.
84
Table of Contents
We recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. The total amount of accrued interest and penalties was $27 million and $121 million at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Potential interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions in various jurisdictions recognized was $3 million during 2022, $2 million during 2021 and $31 million during 2020. To the extent interest and penalties are not assessed with respect to uncertain tax positions, amounts accrued will be reduced and reflected as a reduction of the overall income tax provision.
We file income tax returns with Canada and its provinces and territories. Generally, we are subject to routine examinations by the Canada Revenue Agency (“CRA”). The CRA is conducting examinations of the 2016 through 2018 taxation years. Additionally, income tax returns filed with various provincial jurisdictions are generally open to examination for periods up to six years subsequent to the filing and assessment of the respective return.
We also file income tax returns, including returns for our subsidiaries, with U.S. federal, U.S. state, and other foreign jurisdictions. We are subject to routine examination by taxing authorities in the U.S. jurisdictions, as well as other foreign tax jurisdictions. Taxable years of such U.S. companies are closed through 2018 for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We have various U.S. state and other foreign income tax returns in the process of examination. From time to time, these audits result in proposed assessments where the ultimate resolution may result in owing additional taxes. We believe that our tax positions comply with applicable tax law and that we have adequately provided for these matters.
Note 12. Derivative Instruments
Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
We enter into derivative instruments for risk management purposes, including derivatives designated as cash flow hedges and derivatives designated as net investment hedges. We use derivatives to manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates.
Interest Rate Swaps
At December 31, 2022, we had outstanding receive-variable, pay-fixed interest rate swaps with a total notional value of $3,500 million to hedge the variability in the interest payments on a portion of our Term Loan Facilities, including any subsequent refinancing or replacement of the Term Loan Facilities, beginning August 31, 2021 through the termination date of October 31, 2028. Additionally, at December 31, 2022, we also had outstanding receive-variable, pay-fixed interest rate swaps with a total notional value of $500 million to hedge the variability in the interest payments on a portion of our Term Loan Facilities effective September 30, 2019 through the termination date of September 30, 2026. At inception, all of these interest rate swaps were designated as cash flow hedges for hedge accounting. The unrealized changes in market value are recorded in AOCI, net of tax, and reclassified into interest expense during the period in which the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. The net amount of pre-tax gains in connection with these net unrealized gains in AOCI as of December 31, 2022 that we expect to be reclassified into interest expense within the next 12 months is $86 million.
Cross-Currency Rate Swaps
To protect the value of our investments in our foreign operations against adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we hedge a portion of our net investment in one or more of our foreign subsidiaries by using cross-currency rate swaps. At December 31, 2022, we had outstanding cross-currency rate swap contracts between the Canadian dollar and U.S. dollar and the Euro and U.S. dollar that have been designated as net investment hedges of a portion of our equity in foreign operations in those currencies. The component of the gains and losses on our net investment in these designated foreign operations driven by changes in foreign exchange rates are economically partly offset by movements in the fair value of our cross-currency swap contracts. The fair value of the swaps is calculated each period with changes in fair value reported in AOCI, net of tax. Such amounts will remain in AOCI until the complete or substantially complete liquidation of our investment in the underlying foreign operations.
At December 31, 2022, we had outstanding cross-currency rate swaps that we entered into during 2022 to partially hedge the net investment in our Canadian subsidiaries. At inception, these cross-currency rate swaps were designated as a hedge and are accounted for as net investment hedges. These swaps are contracts in which we receive quarterly fixed-rate interest payments on the U.S. dollar notional amount of $5,000 million through the maturity date of September 30, 2028.
85
Table of Contents
During 2022, we de-designated existing cross-currency rate swap hedges between the Canadian dollar and U.S. dollar with a total notional amount of $5,000 million for hedge accounting. As a result of these de-designations, changes in fair value of these un-designated hedges were recognized in earnings. Concurrently with these de-designations and to offset the changes in fair value recognized in earnings, we entered into off-setting cross-currency rate swaps, with a total notional amount of $5,000 million, that were not designated as a hedge for hedge accounting and as such changes in fair value were recognized in earnings. The balances in AOCI associated with the de-designated cross-currency rate swaps will remain in AOCI and will only be reclassified into earnings if and when the net investment in our Canadian subsidiaries is sold or substantially sold. The entire notional amount of the de-designated cross-currency rate swaps and the off-setting cross-currency rate swaps were cash settled during 2022 for approximately $35 million in net proceeds and included within operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows.
At December 31, 2022, we had outstanding cross-currency rate swaps in which we pay quarterly fixed-rate interest payments on the Euro notional amount of €1,108 million and receive quarterly fixed-rate interest payments on the U.S. dollar notional amount of $1,200 million. At inception, these cross-currency rate swaps were designated as a hedge and are accounted for as a net investment hedge. During 2018, we extended the term of the swaps from March 31, 2021 to the maturity date of February 17, 2024. The extension of the term resulted in a re-designation of the hedge and the swaps continue to be accounted for as a net investment hedge. Additionally, at December 31, 2022, we also had outstanding cross-currency rate swaps in which we receive quarterly fixed-rate interest payments on the U.S. dollar notional value of $400 million, entered during 2018, and $500 million, entered during 2019, through the maturity date of February 17, 2024 and $150 million, entered during 2021, through the maturity date of October 31, 2028. At inception, these cross-currency rate swaps were designated as a hedge and are accounted for as a net investment hedge.
The fixed to fixed cross-currency rate swaps hedging Canadian dollar and Euro net investments utilized the forward method of effectiveness assessment prior to March 15, 2018. On March 15, 2018, we de-designated and subsequently re-designated the outstanding fixed to fixed cross-currency rate swaps to prospectively use the spot method of hedge effectiveness assessment. Additionally, as a result of adopting new hedge accounting guidance during 2018, we elected to exclude the interest component (the "Excluded Component") from the accounting hedge without affecting net investment hedge accounting and elected to amortize the Excluded Component over the life of the derivative instrument. The amortization of the Excluded Component is recognized in Interest expense, net in the consolidated statement of operations. The change in fair value that is not related to the Excluded Component is recorded in AOCI and will be reclassified to earnings when the foreign subsidiaries are sold or substantially liquidated.
Foreign Currency Exchange Contracts
We use foreign exchange derivative instruments to manage the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations on U.S. dollar purchases and payments, such as coffee purchases made by our Canadian Tim Hortons operations. At December 31, 2022, we had outstanding forward currency contracts to manage this risk in which we sell Canadian dollars and buy U.S. dollars with a notional value of $197 million with maturities to February 2024. We have designated these instruments as cash flow hedges, and as such, the unrealized changes in market value of effective hedges are recorded in AOCI and are reclassified into earnings during the period in which the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings.
Credit Risk
By entering into derivative contracts, we are exposed to counterparty credit risk. Counterparty credit risk is the failure of the counterparty to perform under the terms of the derivative contract. When the fair value of a derivative contract is in an asset position, the counterparty has a liability to us, which creates credit risk for us. We attempt to minimize this risk by selecting counterparties with investment grade credit ratings and regularly monitoring our market position with each counterparty.
Credit-Risk Related Contingent Features
Our derivative instruments do not contain any credit-risk related contingent features.

86
Table of Contents
Quantitative Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Fair Value Measurements
The following tables present the required quantitative disclosures for our derivative instruments, including their estimated fair values (all estimated using Level 2 inputs) and their location on our consolidated balance sheets (in millions):
 	Gain or (Loss) Recognized in
Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
 	2022		2021		2020
Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges(1)
Interest rate swaps	$	509 			$	132 			$	(333)	
Forward-currency contracts	$	14 			$	— 			$	(2)	
Derivatives designated as net investment hedges					
Cross-currency rate swaps	$	409 			$	96 			$	(302)	
 
(1) We did not exclude any components from the cash flow hedge relationships presented in this table.
Location of Gain or (Loss) Reclassified from AOCI into Earnings		Gain or (Loss) Reclassified from AOCI into
Earnings
 				2022		2021		2020
Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges								
Interest rate swaps		Interest expense, net		$	(54)			$	(125)			$	(102)	
Forward-currency contracts		Cost of sales		$	8 			$	(7)			$	2 	
 		Location of Gain or (Loss) Recognized in Earnings		Gain or (Loss) Recognized in Earnings (Amount Excluded from Effectiveness Testing)
 				2022		2021		2020
Derivatives designated as net investment hedges								
Cross-currency rate swaps		Interest expense, net		$	56 			$	45 			$	69 	
 
 	Fair Value as of
December 31,		 
 	2022		2021		Balance Sheet Location
Assets:					
Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges					
Interest rate	$	280 			$	— 			Other assets, net
Foreign currency	7 			2 			Prepaids and other current assets
Derivatives designated as net investment hedges					
Foreign currency	78 			23 			Other assets, net
Total assets at fair value	$	365 			$	25 			
Liabilities:					
Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges					
Interest rate	$	— 			$	220 			Other liabilities, net
Derivatives designated as net investment hedges					
Foreign currency	34 			355 			Other liabilities, net
Total liabilities at fair value	$	34 			$	575 			
 




87
Table of Contents
Note 13. Shareholders’ Equity
Special Voting Share
The holders of the Partnership exchangeable units are indirectly entitled to vote in respect of matters on which holders of the common shares of the Company are entitled to vote, including in respect of the election of RBI directors, through a special voting share of the Company (the "Special Voting Share"). The Special Voting Share is held by a trustee, entitling the trustee to that number of votes on matters on which holders of common shares of the Company are entitled to vote equal to the number of Partnership exchangeable units outstanding. The trustee is required to cast such votes in accordance with voting instructions provided by holders of Partnership exchangeable units. At any shareholder meeting of the Company, holders of our common shares vote together as a single class with the Special Voting Share except as otherwise provided by law.
Noncontrolling Interests
We reflect a noncontrolling interest which primarily represents the interests of the holders of Partnership exchangeable units in Partnership that are not held by RBI. The holders of Partnership exchangeable units held an economic interest of approximately 31.8% and 31.9% in Partnership common equity through the ownership of 142,996,640 and 144,993,458 Partnership exchangeable units as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
Pursuant to the terms of the partnership agreement, each holder of a Partnership exchangeable unit is entitled to distributions from Partnership in an amount equal to any dividends or distributions that we declare and pay with respect to our common shares. Additionally, each holder of a Partnership exchangeable unit is entitled to vote in respect of matters on which holders of RBI common shares are entitled to vote through our special voting share. A holder of a Partnership exchangeable unit may require Partnership to exchange all or any portion of such holder’s Partnership exchangeable units for our common shares at a ratio of one common share for each Partnership exchangeable unit, subject to our right as the general partner of Partnership, in our sole discretion, to deliver a cash payment in lieu of our common shares. If we elect to make a cash payment in lieu of issuing common shares, the amount of the payment will be the weighted average trading price of the common shares on the New York Stock Exchange for the 20 consecutive trading days ending on the last business day prior to the exchange date.
During 2022, Partnership exchanged 1,996,818 Partnership exchangeable units, pursuant to exchange notices received. In accordance with the terms of the partnership agreement, Partnership satisfied the exchange notices by exchanging 1,996,818 Partnership exchangeable units for the same number of newly issued RBI common shares. During 2021, Partnership exchanged 10,119,880 Partnership exchangeable units, pursuant to exchange notices received. In accordance with the terms of the partnership agreement, Partnership satisfied the exchange notices by exchanging 10,119,880 Partnership exchangeable units for the same number of newly issued RBI common shares. During 2020, Partnership exchanged 10,393,861 Partnership exchangeable units, pursuant to exchange notices received. In accordance with the terms of the partnership agreement, Partnership satisfied the exchange notices by repurchasing 6,757,692 Partnership exchangeable units for approximately $380 million in cash and exchanging 3,636,169 Partnership exchangeable units for the same number of newly issued RBI common shares. The exchanges represented increases in our ownership interest in Partnership and were accounted for as equity transactions, with no gain or loss recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. Pursuant to the terms of the partnership agreement, upon the exchange of Partnership exchangeable units, each such Partnership exchangeable unit was cancelled concurrently with the exchange.
Share Repurchase
On July 28, 2021, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program that allows us to purchase up to $1,000 million of our common shares until August 10, 2023. During 2022, we repurchased and cancelled 6,101,364 common shares for $326 million and during 2021 we repurchased and cancelled 9,247,648 common shares for $551 million and as of December 31, 2022 had $123 million remaining under the authorization.
88
Table of Contents
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
The following table displays the change in the components of AOCI (in millions):
Derivatives		Pensions		Foreign
Currency
Translation		Accumulated 
Other
Comprehensive
Income (Loss)
Balances at December 31, 2019	$	199 			$	(19)			$	(943)			$	(763)	
Foreign currency translation adjustment	— 			— 			332 			332 	
Net change in fair value of derivatives, net of tax	(486)			— 			— 			(486)	
Amounts reclassified to earnings of cash flow hedges, net of tax	73 			— 			— 			73 	
Pension and post-retirement benefit plans, net of tax	— 			(16)			— 			(16)	
Amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests	145 			5 			(144)			6 	
Balances at December 31, 2020	(69)			(30)			(755)			(854)	
Foreign currency translation adjustment	— 			— 			(67)			(67)	
Net change in fair value of derivatives, net of tax	207 			— 			— 			207 	
Amounts reclassified to earnings of cash flow hedges, net of tax	96 			— 			— 			96 	
Pension and post-retirement benefit plans, net of tax	— 			15 			— 			15 	
Amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests	(98)			(6)			(3)			(107)	
Balances at December 31, 2021	136 			(21)			(825)			(710)	
Foreign currency translation adjustment	— 			— 			(703)			(703)	
Net change in fair value of derivatives, net of tax	714 			— 			— 			714 	
Amounts reclassified to earnings of cash flow hedges, net of tax	34 			— 			— 			34 	
Pension and post-retirement benefit plans, net of tax	— 			6 			— 			6 	
Amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests	(236)			(2)			218 			(20)	
Balances at December 31, 2022	$	648 			$	(17)			$	(1,310)			$	(679)	
 

Note 14. Share-based Compensation
Our Amended and Restated 2014 Omnibus Incentive Plan as amended (the “Omnibus Plan”) provides for the grant of awards to employees, directors, consultants and other persons who provide services to us and our affiliates. We also have some outstanding awards under legacy plans for BK and TH, which were assumed in connection with the merger and amalgamation of those entities within the RBI group. No new awards may be granted under these legacy BK plans or legacy TH plans.
We are currently issuing awards under the Omnibus Plan and the number of shares available for issuance under such plan as of December 31, 2022 was 3,714,406. The Omnibus Plan permits the grant of several types of awards with respect to our common shares, including stock options, time-vested RSUs, and performance-based RSUs, which may include Company, S&P 500 Index and/or individual performance based-vesting conditions. Under the terms of the Omnibus Plan, RSUs are generally entitled to dividend equivalents, which are not distributed unless the related awards vest. Upon vesting, the amount of the dividend equivalent, which is distributed in additional RSUs, except in the case of RSUs awarded to non-management members of our board of directors, is equal to the equivalent of the aggregate dividends declared on common shares during the period from the date of grant of the award compounded until the date the shares underlying the award are delivered.
Share-based compensation expense is generally classified as general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of operations and consists of the following for the periods presented (in millions):
2022		2021		2020
Total share-based compensation expense - RSUs and Stock options	$	121 			$	88 			$	74 	
 
As of December 31, 2022, total unrecognized compensation cost related to share-based compensation arrangements was $312 million and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 3.1 years.

89
Table of Contents
Restricted Stock Units
The fair value of the time-vested RSUs and performance-based RSUs is based on the closing price of the Company’s common shares on the trading day preceding the date of grant. Time-vested RSUs are expensed over the vesting period. Performance-based RSUs are expensed over the vesting period, based upon the probability that the performance target will be met. We grant fully vested RSUs, with dividend equivalent rights that accrue in cash, to non-employee members of our board of directors in lieu of a cash retainer and committee fees. All such RSUs will settle and common shares of the Company will be issued upon termination of service by the board member.
Starting in 2021, grants of time-vested RSUs generally vest 25% per year on December 31st over four years from the grant date and performance-based RSUs generally cliff vest three years from the grant date (the starting date for the applicable vesting period is referred to as the “Anniversary Date”). Time-vested RSUs and performance-based RSUs awarded prior to 2021 generally cliff vest five years from the original grant date.
During 2022, the Company granted performance-based RSUs that cliff vest three years from the original grant date based on achievement of performance metrics with a multiplier that can increase or decrease the amount vested based on the achievement of contractually defined relative total shareholder return targets with respect to the S&P 500 Index. Performance-based RSUs granted in 2021 cliff vest three years from the original grant date based solely on defined relative total shareholder return targets with respect to the S&P 500 Index. The respective fair value of these performance-based RSU awards was based on a Monte Carlo Simulation valuation model and these market condition awards are expensed over the vesting period regardless of the value that the award recipients ultimately receive.
For grants of time-vested RSUs beginning in 2021, if the employee is terminated for any reason prior to any vesting date, the employee will forfeit all of the RSUs that are unvested at the time of termination. For grants of performance-based RSUs beginning in 2021, if the employee is terminated within the first two years of the Anniversary Date, 100% of the performance-based RSUs will be forfeited. If we terminate the employment of a performance-based RSU holder without cause at least two years after the grant date, or if the employee retires, the employee will become vested in 67% of the performance-based RSUs that are earned based on the performance criteria.
For grants prior to 2021, if the employee is terminated for any reason within the first two years of the Anniversary Date, 100% of the time-vested RSUs granted will be forfeited. If we terminate the employment of a time-vested RSU holder without cause two years after the Anniversary Date, or if the employee retires, the employee will become vested in the number of time-vested RSUs as if the time-vested RSUs vested 20% for each anniversary after the grant date. Also, for grants prior to 2021, if the employee is terminated for any reason within the first three years of the Anniversary Date, 100% of the performance-based RSUs granted will be forfeited. If we terminate the employment of a performance-based RSU holder without cause between three and five years after the Anniversary Date, or if the employee retires, the employee will become vested in 50% of the performance-based RSUs.
An alternate ratable vesting schedule applies to the extent the participant ends employment by reason of death or disability.
Chairman Awards
In connection with the appointment of the Executive Chairman in November 2022, the Company made one-time grants of options, RSUs and performance-based RSUs with specific terms and conditions. The Company granted 2,000,000 options with an exercise price equal to the closing price of RBI common shares on the trading day preceding the date of grant that cliff vest five years from the date of grant and expire after ten years. The Company granted 500,000 RSUs that vest ratably over five years on the anniversary of the grant date. Lastly, the Company granted 750,000 performance-based RSUs that cliff vest five and a half years from the date of grant and may be earned from 50% for threshold performance to 200% for maximum performance, based on meeting performance targets tied to the appreciation of the price of RBI common shares, with none of the award being earned if the threshold is not met. The respective fair value of these performance-based RSU awards was based on a Monte Carlo Simulation valuation model and these market condition awards are expensed over the vesting period regardless of the value that the award recipient ultimately receives.
90
Table of Contents
Restricted Stock Units Activity
The following is a summary of time-vested RSUs and performance-based RSUs activity for the year ended December 31, 2022:
 	Time-vested RSUs		Performance-based RSUs
 	Total Number of
Shares
(in 000’s)		Weighted Average
Grant Date Fair
Value		Total Number of
Shares
(in 000’s)		Weighted Average
Grant Date Fair
Value
Outstanding at January 1, 2022	2,764 			$	57.47 			3,895 			$	62.09 	
Granted	1,722 			$	57.24 			2,693 			$	51.31 	
Vested and settled	(852)			$	56.00 			(153)			$	58.31 	
Dividend equivalents granted	103 			$	— 			160 			$	— 	
Forfeited	(184)			$	58.66 			(158)			$	64.78 	
Outstanding at December 31, 2022	3,553 			$	57.31 			6,437 			$	57.43 	
 

The weighted-average grant date fair value of time-vested RSUs granted was $60.97 and $65.20 during 2021 and 2020, respectively. The weighted-average grant date fair value of performance-based RSUs granted was $57.60 and $62.69 during 2021 and 2020, respectively. The total fair value, determined as of the date of vesting, of RSUs vested and converted to common shares of the Company during 2022, 2021 and 2020 was $58 million, $99 million and $21 million, respectively.
Stock Options
Stock option awards are granted with an exercise price or market value equal to the closing price of our common shares on the trading day preceding the date of grant. We satisfy stock option exercises through the issuance of authorized but previously unissued common shares. Stock option grants generally cliff vest 5 years from the original grant date, provided the employee is continuously employed by us or one of our affiliates, and the stock options expire 10 years following the grant date. Additionally, if we terminate the employment of a stock option holder without cause prior to the vesting date, or if the employee retires or becomes disabled, the employee will become vested in the number of stock options as if the stock options vested 20% on each anniversary of the grant date. If the employee dies, the employee will become vested in the number of stock options as if the stock options vested 20% on the first anniversary of the grant date, 40% on the second anniversary of the grant date and 100% on the third anniversary of the grant date. If an employee is terminated with cause or resigns before vesting, all stock options are forfeited. If there is an event such as a return of capital or dividend that is determined to be dilutive, the exercise price of the awards will be adjusted accordingly.
The following assumptions were used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to determine the fair value of stock option awards granted in 2022 and 2020 at the grant date. There were no significant stock option awards granted in 2021.
2022		2020
Risk-free interest rate	3.92%		1.29%
Expected term (in years)	7.50		5.88
Expected volatility	30.0%		23.9%
Expected dividend yield	3.24%		3.14%
 
The risk-free interest rate was based on the U.S. Treasury or Canadian Sovereign bond yield with a remaining term equal to the expected option life assumed at the date of grant. The expected term was calculated based on the analysis of a five-year vesting period coupled with our expectations of exercise activity. Expected volatility was based on the historical and implied equity volatility of the Company. The expected dividend yield is based on the annual dividend yield at the time of grant.
91
Table of Contents
Stock Options Activity
The following is a summary of stock option activity under our plans for the year ended December 31, 2022:
Total Number of
Options 
(in 000’s)		Weighted 
Average
Exercise Price		Aggregate 
Intrinsic
Value (a)
(in 000’s)		Weighted 
Average
Remaining
Contractual Term
(Years)
Outstanding at January 1, 2022	6,207 			$	54.80 					
Granted	2,018 			$	66.62 					
Exercised	(484)			$	43.42 					
Forfeited	(247)			$	64.83 					
Outstanding at December 31, 2022	7,494 			$	58.00 			$	55,682 			6.1
Exercisable at December 31, 2022	2,724 			$	46.72 			$	48,953 			3.0
Vested or expected to vest at December 31, 2022	7,125 			$	57.75 			$	54,835 			6.0
 

(a)The intrinsic value represents the amount by which the fair value of our stock exceeds the option exercise price at December 31, 2022.
The weighted-average grant date fair value per stock option granted was $17.52, $10.15, and $10.38 during 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised was $10 million during 2022, $46 million during 2021, and $55 million during 2020.

Note 15. Revenue Recognition
Contract Liabilities
Contract liabilities consist of deferred revenue resulting from initial and renewal franchise fees paid by franchisees, as well as upfront fees paid by master franchisees, which are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the underlying agreement. We may recognize unamortized franchise fees and upfront fees when a contract with a franchisee or master franchisee is modified and is accounted for as a termination of the existing contract. We classify these contract liabilities as Other liabilities, net in our consolidated balance sheets. The following table reflects the change in contract liabilities on a consolidated basis between December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2022 (in millions):
Contract Liabilities		
Balance at December 31, 2021		$	531 	
Effect of business combination		8 	
Recognized during period and included in the contract liability balance at the beginning of the year		(57)	
Increase, excluding amounts recognized as revenue during the period		71 	
Impact of foreign currency translation		(13)	
Balance at December 31, 2022		$	540 	
 

92
Table of Contents
The following table illustrates estimated revenues expected to be recognized in the future related to performance obligations that are unsatisfied (or partially unsatisfied) on a consolidated basis as of December 31, 2022 (in millions):
Contract liabilities expected to be recognized in		
2023		$	52 	
2024		50 	
2025		47 	
2026		44 	
2027		42 	
Thereafter		305 	
Total		$	540 	
 
Disaggregation of Total Revenues
The following tables disaggregate revenue by segment (in millions):
2022
TH		BK		PLK		FHS		Total
Sales	$	2,631 			$	70 			$	78 			$	40 			$	2,819 	
Royalties	320 			1,064 			287 			66 			1,737 	
Property revenues	577 			224 			12 			— 			813 	
Franchise fees and other revenue	28 			54 			10 			19 			111 	
Advertising revenues and other services	267 			485 			260 			13 			1,025 	
Total revenues	$	3,823 			$	1,897 			$	647 			$	138 			$	6,505 	
 
2021
TH		BK		PLK		FHS		Total
Sales	$	2,249 			$	64 			$	64 			$	1 			$	2,378 	
Royalties	287 			1,008 			264 			2 			1,561 	
Property revenues	556 			224 			13 			— 			793 	
Franchise fees and other revenue	21 			60 			6 			2 			89 	
Advertising revenues and other services	229 			457 			232 			— 			918 	
Total revenues	$	3,342 			$	1,813 			$	579 			$	5 			$	5,739 	
 
2020
TH		BK		PLK		FHS		Total
Sales	$	1,876 			$	64 			$	73 			$	— 			$	2,013 	
Royalties	240 			842 			245 			— 			1,327 	
Property revenues	486 			219 			13 			— 			718 	
Franchise fees and other revenue	19 			52 			5 			— 			76 	
Advertising revenues and other services	189 			425 			220 			— 			834 	
Total revenues	$	2,810 			$	1,602 			$	556 			$	— 			$	4,968 	
 





93
Table of Contents
Note 16. Other Operating Expenses (Income), net
Other operating expenses (income), net, consist of the following (in millions): 
2022		2021		2020
Net losses (gains) on disposal of assets, restaurant closures and refranchisings	$	4 			$	2 			$	6 	
Litigation settlements and reserves, net	11 			81 			7 	
Net losses (gains) on foreign exchange	(4)			(76)			100 	
Other, net	14 			— 			(8)	
Other operating expenses (income), net	$	25 			$	7 			$	105 	
 
Net losses (gains) on disposal of assets, restaurant closures, and refranchisings represent sales of properties and other costs related to restaurant closures and refranchisings. Gains and losses recognized in the current period may reflect certain costs related to closures and refranchisings that occurred in previous periods.
Litigation settlements and reserves, net primarily reflects accruals and payments made and proceeds received in connection with litigation and arbitration matters and other business disputes.
In early 2022, we entered into negotiations to resolve business disputes that arose during 2021 with counterparties to the master franchise agreements for Burger King and Popeyes in China. Based on these discussions, we paid approximately $100 million in 2022, of which $5 million and $72 million was recorded as Litigation settlements and reserves, net in 2022 and 2021, respectively. The majority of this amount related to Popeyes, resolved our disputes, and allowed us to move forward in the market with a new master franchisee. Additionally, pursuant to this agreement we and our partners have made equity contributions to the Burger King business in China.
Net losses (gains) on foreign exchange is primarily related to revaluation of foreign denominated assets and liabilities, primarily those denominated in Euros and Canadian dollars.
Note 17. Commitments and Contingencies
Letters of Credit
As of December 31, 2022, we had $11 million in irrevocable standby letters of credit outstanding, which were issued primarily to certain insurance carriers to guarantee payments of deductibles for various insurance programs, such as health and commercial liability insurance. Of these letters of credit outstanding, $2 million are secured by the collateral under our Revolving Credit Facility and the remainder are secured by cash collateral. As of December 31, 2022, no amounts had been drawn on any of these irrevocable standby letters of credit.
Purchase Commitments
We have arrangements for information technology and telecommunication services with an aggregate contractual obligation of $23 million over the next two years, some of which have early termination fees. We also enter into commitments to purchase advertising. As of December 31, 2022, these commitments totaled $212 million and run through 2025.
Litigation
From time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business relating to matters including, but not limited to, disputes with franchisees, suppliers, employees and customers, as well as disputes over our intellectual property.
On October 5, 2018, a class action complaint was filed against Burger King Worldwide, Inc. (“BKW”) and Burger King Company, successor in interest, (“BKC”) in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida by Jarvis Arrington, individually and on behalf of all others similarly situated. On October 18, 2018, a second class action complaint was filed against RBI, BKW and BKC in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida by Monique Michel, individually and on behalf of all others similarly situated. On October 31, 2018, a third class action complaint was filed against BKC and BKW in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida by Geneva Blanchard and Tiffany Miller, individually and on behalf of all others similarly situated. On November 2, 2018, a fourth class action complaint was filed against RBI, BKW and BKC in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida by Sandra Munster, individually and on behalf of all others similarly situated. These complaints have been consolidated and allege that the defendants violated Section 1 of the Sherman Act by incorporating an employee no-solicitation and no-hiring clause in the standard form franchise agreement all Burger King franchisees are required to sign. Each plaintiff seeks
94
Table of Contents
injunctive relief and damages for himself or herself and other members of the class. On March 24, 2020, the Court granted BKC’s motion to dismiss for failure to state a claim and on April 20, 2020 the plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to amend their complaint. On April 27, 2020, BKC filed a motion opposing the motion for leave to amend. The court denied the plaintiffs motion for leave to amend their complaint in August 2020 and the plaintiffs appealed this ruling. In August 2022, the federal appellate court reversed the lower court's decision to dismiss the case and remanded the case to the lower court for further proceedings. While we currently believe these claims are without merit, we are unable to predict the ultimate outcome of this case or estimate the range of possible loss, if any.
On June 30, 2020, a class action complaint was filed against RBI, Partnership and The TDL Group Corp. in the Quebec Superior Court by Steve Holcman, individually and on behalf of all Quebec residents who downloaded the Tim Hortons mobile application. On July 2, 2020, a Notice of Action related to a second class action complaint was filed against RBI, in the Ontario Superior Court by Ashley Sitko and Ashley Cadeau, individually and on behalf of all Canadian residents who downloaded the Tim Hortons mobile application. On August 31, 2020, a notice of claim was filed against RBI in the Supreme Court of British Columbia by Wai Lam Jacky Law on behalf of all persons in Canada who downloaded the Tim Hortons mobile application or the Burger King mobile application. On September 30, 2020, a notice of action was filed against RBI, Partnership, The TDL Group Corp., BKW and Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen, Inc. in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice by William Jung on behalf of a to be determined class. All of the complaints alleged that the defendants violated the plaintiff’s privacy rights, the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act, consumer protection and competition laws or app-based undertakings to users, in each case in connection with the collection of geolocation data through the Tim Hortons mobile application, and in certain cases, the Burger King and Popeyes mobile applications. Each plaintiff sought injunctive relief and monetary damages for himself or herself and other members of the class. The parties have reached a national settlement of all cases, which has been approved by the applicable courts, pursuant to which The TDL Group Corp. is providing each member of the class a voucher for one hot beverage and one baked good and will pay plaintiffs legal fees, in an amount which we believe is immaterial.
On October 26, 2020, City of Warwick Municipal Employees Pension Fund, a purported stockholder of RBI, individually and putatively on behalf of all other stockholders similarly situated, filed a lawsuit in the Supreme Court of the State of New York County of New York naming RBI and certain of our officers, directors and shareholders as defendants alleging violations of Sections 11, 12(a)(2) and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in connection with certain offerings of securities by an affiliate in August and September 2019. The complaint alleges that the shelf registration statement used in connection with such offering contained certain false and/or misleading statements or omissions. The complaint seeks, among other relief, class certification of the lawsuit, unspecified compensatory damages, rescission, pre-judgement and post-judgement interest, costs and expenses. On December 18, 2020 the plaintiffs filed an amended complaint and on February 16, 2021 RBI filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. The plaintiffs filed a brief in opposition to the motion on April 19, 2021 and RBI filed a reply in May 2021. The motion to dismiss was heard in April 2022 and the motion to dismiss was denied in May 2022. On June 6, 2022, we filed an answer to the complaint and on July 8, 2022, we filed an appeal of the denial of the motion to dismiss. On November 10, 2022, the appellate division reversed the trial court and ordered that the complaint be dismissed. Plaintiffs have moved for leave to appeal to the Court of Appeals of the State of New York and we filed an opposition to their motion. The parties are awaiting a decision as to whether the Court of Appeals will accept the appeal. We intend to vigorously defend. While we believe these claims are without merit, we are unable to predict the ultimate outcome of this case or estimate the range of possible loss, if any.
In April 2022, BKC was served with two separate purported class action complaints relating to per- and polyfluoroalkyl (“PFAS”) in packaging. Hussain vs. BKC was filed on April 13, 2022 in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, and Cooper v. BKC was filed on April 14, 2022 in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida. Both complaints alleged that certain food products sold by BKC are not safe for human consumption due to the packaging containing allegedly unsafe PFAS and that consumers were misled by the labelling, marketing and packaging claims asserted by BKC regarding the safety and sustainability of the packaging and sought compensatory, statutory and punitive damages, injunctive relief, corrective action, and attorneys’ fees. Hussain voluntarily dismissed the case on August 22, 2022. In June 2022, Cooper voluntarily dismissed the case and then refiled their complaint in state court only on behalf of Florida consumers. We filed a motion to dismiss on October 17, 2022. The plaintiff dismissed the case with prejudice in November 2022 and these matters are closed.

Note 18. Segment Reporting and Geographical Information
As stated in Note 1, Description of Business and Organization, we manage four brands. Under the Tim Hortons brand, we operate in the donut/coffee/tea category of the quick service segment of the restaurant industry. Under the Burger King brand, we operate in the fast food hamburger restaurant category of the quick service segment of the restaurant industry. Under the Popeyes brand, we operate in the chicken category of the quick service segment of the restaurant industry. Under the Firehouse Subs brand, we operate in the specialty subs category of the quick service segment of the restaurant industry. Our business generates revenue from the following sources: (i) sales, consisting primarily of supply chain sales, which represent sales of products, supplies and restaurant equipment to franchisees, as well as sales to retailers and sales at restaurants owned by us (“Company restaurants”); (ii) franchise revenues, consisting primarily of royalties based on a percentage of sales reported by franchise restaurants and franchise fees paid by franchisees; (iii) property revenues from properties we lease or sublease to franchisees; and (iv) advertising revenues and other
95
Table of Contents
services, consisting primarily of advertising fund contributions based on a percentage of sales reported by franchise restaurants. We manage each of our brands as an operating segment and each operating segment represents a reportable segment.
Our management structure and financial reporting is organized around our four brands, including the information regularly reviewed by our Chief Executive Officer, who is our Chief Operating Decision Maker. Therefore, we have four operating segments: (1) TH, which includes all operations of our Tim Hortons brand, (2) BK, which includes all operations of our Burger King brand, (3) PLK, which includes all operations of our Popeyes brand, and (4) FHS, which includes all operations of our Firehouse Subs brand. Our four operating segments represent our reportable segments. FHS revenues and segment income for the period from the acquisition date of December 15, 2021 through December 26, 2021 (the fiscal year end for FHS) are included in our consolidated statement of operations for 2021.
The following tables present revenues, by segment and by country, depreciation and amortization, (income) loss from equity method investments, and capital expenditures by segment (in millions):
2022		2021		2020
Revenues by operating segment:					
TH	$	3,823 			$	3,342 			$	2,810 	
BK	1,897 			1,813 			1,602 	
PLK	647 			579 			556 	
FHS	138 			5 			— 	
Total	$	6,505 			$	5,739 			$	4,968 	
Revenues by country (a):					
Canada	$	3,458 			$	3,035 			$	2,546 	
United States	2,273 			2,005 			1,889 	
Other	774 			699 			533 	
Total	$	6,505 			$	5,739 			$	4,968 	
 
Depreciation and amortization:					
TH	$	114 			$	132 			$	119 	
BK	66 			62 			62 	
PLK	8 			7 			8 	
FHS	2 			— 			— 	
Total	$	190 			$	201 			$	189 	
 
(Income) loss from equity method investments:					
TH	$	(8)			$	(13)			$	(4)	
BK	51 			17 			43 	
PLK	1 			— 			— 	
Total	$	44 			$	4 			$	39 	
 
Capital expenditures:					
TH	$	30 			$	61 			$	92 	
BK	63 			34 			18 	
PLK	6 			11 			7 	
FHS	1 			— 			— 	
Total	$	100 			$	106 			$	117 	
 
(a)Only Canada and the United States represented 10% or more of our total revenues in each period presented.
96
Table of Contents
Total assets by segment, and long-lived assets by segment and country are as follows (in millions):
 	Assets		Long-Lived Assets
 	As of December 31,		As of December 31,
 	2022		2021		2022		2021
By operating segment:							
TH	$	13,279 			$	13,995 			$	1,819 			$	1,963 	
BK	5,007 			4,946 			1,140 			1,137 	
PLK	2,572 			2,563 			143 			141 	
FHS	1,098 			1,103 			12 			4 	
Unallocated	790 			639 			— 			— 	
Total	$	22,746 			$	23,246 			$	3,114 			$	3,245 	
By country:							
Canada					$	1,531 			$	1,670 	
United States					1,558 			1,556 	
Other					25 			19 	
Total					$	3,114 			$	3,245 	
 
Long-lived assets include property and equipment, net, finance and operating lease right of use assets, net and net investment in property leased to franchisees. Only Canada and the United States represented 10% or more of our total long-lived assets as of December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021.
Our measure of segment income is Adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA represents earnings (net income or loss) before interest expense, net, loss on early extinguishment of debt, income tax (benefit) expense, and depreciation and amortization, adjusted to exclude (i) the non-cash impact of share-based compensation and non-cash incentive compensation expense, (ii) (income) loss from equity method investments, net of cash distributions received from equity method investments, (iii) other operating expenses (income), net and, (iv) income/expenses from non-recurring projects and non-operating activities. For the periods referenced, income/expenses from non-recurring projects and non-operating activities included (i) non-recurring fees and expense incurred in connection with the Firehouse Acquisition consisting of professional fees, compensation-related expenses and integration costs (“FHS Transaction costs”); and (ii) non-operating costs from professional advisory and consulting services associated with certain transformational corporate restructuring initiatives that rationalize our structure and optimize cash movements, including services related to significant tax reform legislation, regulations and related restructuring initiatives (“Corporate restructuring and tax advisory fees”).

97
Table of Contents
Adjusted EBITDA is used by management to measure operating performance of the business, excluding these non-cash and other specifically identified items that management believes are not relevant to management’s assessment of our operating performance. A reconciliation of segment income to net income consists of the following (in millions):
2022		2021		2020
Segment income:					
TH	$	1,073 			$	997 			$	823 	
BK	1,007 			1,021 			823 	
PLK	242 			228 			218 	
FHS	56 			2 			— 	
Adjusted EBITDA	2,378 			2,248 			1,864 	
Share-based compensation and non-cash incentive compensation expense	136 			102 			84 	
FHS Transaction costs	24 			18 			— 	
Corporate restructuring and tax advisory fees	46 			16 			16 	
Impact of equity method investments (a)	59 			25 			48 	
Other operating expenses (income), net	25 			7 			105 	
EBITDA	2,088 			2,080 			1,611 	
Depreciation and amortization	190 			201 			189 	
Income from operations	1,898 			1,879 			1,422 	
Interest expense, net	533 			505 			508 	
Loss on early extinguishment of debt	— 			11 			98 	
Income tax (benefit) expense	(117)			110 			66 	
Net income	$	1,482 			$	1,253 			$	750 	
 
(a)Represents (i) (income) loss from equity method investments and (ii) cash distributions received from our equity method investments. Cash distributions received from our equity method investments are included in segment income.

Note 19. Subsequent Events
Dividends
On January 4, 2023, we paid a cash dividend of $0.54 per common share to common shareholders of record on December 21, 2022. On such date, Partnership also made a distribution in respect of each Partnership exchangeable unit in the amount of $0.54 per exchangeable unit to holders of record on December 21, 2022.
On February 14, 2023, we announced that the board of directors had declared a cash dividend of $0.55 per common share for the first quarter of 2023. The dividend will be paid on April 5, 2023 to common shareholders of record on March 22, 2023. Partnership will also make a distribution in respect of each Partnership exchangeable unit in the amount of $0.55 per Partnership exchangeable unit, and the record date and payment date for distributions on Partnership exchangeable units are the same as the record date and payment date set forth above.
*****
98
Table of Contents

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
None.
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
An evaluation was conducted under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15e under the Exchange Act) as of December 31, 2022. Based on that evaluation, the CEO and CFO concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of such date.
Changes in Internal Controls
We have integrated Firehouse Subs into our overall internal control over financial reporting processes.
Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Except as described above, the Company’s management, including the CEO and CFO, confirm that there were no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter of 2022 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting and the report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm are set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.
Item 9B. Other Information
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(e)
Pursuant to RBI’s Bonus Swap Program, RBI provides eligible employees, including its named executive officers, or NEOs, the ability to invest 25% or 50% of their net cash bonus into RBI common shares (“Investment Shares”) and leverage the investment through the issuance of matching restricted share units (“RSUs”). The matching RSUs vest ratably over four years on December 31 of each year, beginning the year of grant. All of the unvested matching RSUs will be forfeited if an NEO’s service (including service on the Board of Directors of RBI) is terminated for any reason (other than death or disability) prior to the date of vesting. If an NEO transfers any Investment Shares before the vesting date, he or she will forfeit 100% of the unvested matching RSUs. All of RBI’s eligible NEOs elected to participate in the 2022 Bonus Swap Program at the 50% level. On January 27, 2023, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the “Compensation Committee”) approved the 2023 bonus swap program on substantially the same terms as the 2022 bonus swap program, except the matching RSUs will vest on December 15 of each year, beginning the year of grant.
On January 27, 2023, the Compensation Committee approved the 2023 Annual Bonus Program. For 2023 annual incentive, each of the NEOs will have 25% of the target based on achievement of individual metrics which may be earned from 0% up to 100% and 75% of the target based on a mix of comparable sales achievement, net restaurant growth (“NRG”) achievement, and on organic Adjusted EBITDA achievement, each of which may be earned from a threshold of 50% to a maximum of 200%; with the weighting based on the applicable business unit. For corporate roles, the weighting is 15% NRG achievement, 20% comparable sales achievement and 40% organic adjusted EBITDA achievement. Overall, any annual incentive payout will require (1) achievement of the threshold amount of Adjusted EBITDA, (2) that individual achievement must also be earned at no less than 20% and (3) that certain general and administrative expense targets must be met.
On February 13, 2023, in addition to the grant of awards to Mr. Kobza as previously disclosed, the Compensation Committee approved performance based RSUs (“PSUs”) discretionary awards to Messrs. Dunnigan, Shear and Curtis, which consist of the following PSUs at target based on the closing price on February 21, 2023: $2,500,000 PSUs for Mr. Dunnigan, $5,000,000 PSUs for Mr. Shear and $3,000,000 PSUs for Mr. Curtis. The performance measure for purposes of determining the number of PSUs earned by each of Messrs. Dunnigan, Shear and Curtis is the relative total shareholder return of RBI shares on the NYSE compared to the S&P 500 for the period from December 31, 2022 to December 31, 2025. The Compensation Committee established a target performance
99
Table of Contents
level at the 50th percentile, a performance threshold at or above which 50% of target is earned and below which no shares are earned at the 25th percentile, and a maximum performance level at the 85th percentile at or above which 150% of the target is earned. Amounts earned between threshold and target or target and maximum will be based on linear interpolation. Once earned, the PSUs will cliff vest on February 22, 2026. In addition, if an executive’s service to RBI is terminated (other than due to death or disability) prior to February 22, 2025, he or she will forfeit the entire award. A copy of the form of the Performance Award Agreement between RBI and each of the NEOs is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.36(g). This summary is qualified in its entirety to the full text of the form of award agreement.
Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections
None.
Part III
 
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference from the Company’s definitive proxy statement to be filed no later than 120 days after December 31, 2022. We refer to this proxy statement as the Definitive Proxy Statement.
Item 11. Executive Compensation
The information required by this item will be contained in the Definitive Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
The information required by this item, other than the information regarding our equity plans set forth below required by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K, will be contained in the Definitive Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans
Information regarding equity awards outstanding under our compensation plans as of December 31, 2022 was as follows (amounts in thousands, except per share data):
(a)		(b)		(c)
Plan Category	Number of
Securities to be
Issued Upon
Exercise of
Outstanding
Options, Warrants
and Rights		
Weighted-Average
Exercise Price of
Outstanding
Options, Warrants
and Rights(1)
Number of
Securities
Remaining
Available for
Future Issuance
under Equity
Compensation
Plans (Excluding
Securities Reflected
in Column (a))
Equity Compensation Plans Approved by Security Holders	17,484 			$	58.00 			3,714 	
Equity Compensation Plans Not Approved by Security Holders	— 			— 			— 	
Total	17,484 			$	58.00 			3,714 	
 
(1)The weighted average exercise price does not take into account the common shares issuable upon outstanding RSUs vesting, which have no exercise price.
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
The information required by this item will be contained in the Definitive Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services
Our independent registered public accounting firm is KPMG LLP, Miami, FL, Auditor Firm ID: 185.
The information required by this item will be contained in the Definitive Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.
100
Table of Contents
Part IV

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
(a)(1)All Financial Statements
Consolidated financial statements filed as part of this report are listed under Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.
(a)(2)Financial Statement Schedules
No schedules are required because either the required information is not present or is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the information required is included in the consolidated financial statements or the notes thereto.
(a)(3)Exhibits
The following exhibits are filed as part of this report. 
Exhibit
Number	  	Description	  	Incorporated by Reference
3.1
  	
Articles of Incorporation of the Registrant, as amended.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Form 10-K of Registrant filed on March 2, 2015.
3.2
  	
Amended and Restated By-Law 1 of the Registrant.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.4 to the Form 8-K of Registrant filed on December 12, 2014.
4.1
Description of Share Capital
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Form 10-K of Registrant filed on February 21, 2020.
4.2
  	
Registration Rights Agreement between Burger King Worldwide, Inc. and 3G Special Situations Fund II, L.P.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Form S-8 of Burger King Worldwide, Inc. (File No. 333-182232).
4.3
  	
Registration Rights Agreement between Burger King Worldwide Inc., Pershing Square, L.P., Pershing Square II, L.P., Pershing Square International, Ltd. and William Ackman.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the Form S-8 of Burger King Worldwide, Inc. (File No. 333-182232).
4.13
Indenture, dated as of September 24, 2019, by and among 1011778 B.C. Unlimited Liability Company, as issuer, New Red Finance, Inc., as co-issuer, the guarantors from time to time party thereto and Wilmington Trust, National Association, as trustee and as collateral agent.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.13 to the Form 8-K of Registrant filed on September 24, 2019.
4.13(a)
Form of 3.875% First Lien Senior Secured Note due 2028 (included as Exhibit A to Exhibit 4.13).

Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.13(a) to the Form 8-K of Registrant filed on September 24, 2019.
4.13(b)
Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 6, 2021, by and among 1011778 B.C. Unlimited Liability Company, as issuer, New Red Finance, Inc., as co-issuer, the guarantors party thereto and Wilmington Trust, National Association, as trustee and collateral agent.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.19 to the Form 8-K of Registrant filed on July 7, 2021.
4.14
Indenture, dated as of November 19, 2019, by and among 1011778 B.C. Unlimited Liability Company, as issuer, New Red Finance, Inc., as co-issuer, the guarantors from time to time party thereto and Wilmington Trust, National Association, as trustee and as collateral agent.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.14 to the Form 8-K of Registrant filed on November 20, 2019.

4.14(a)
Form of 4.375% Second Lien Senior Secured Note due 2028 (included as Exhibit A to Exhibit 4.14).
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.14(a) to the Form 8-K of Registrant filed on November 20, 2019.
 
101
Table of Contents
4.15
Indenture, dated as of April 7, 2020, by and among 1011778 B.C. Unlimited Liability Company, as issuer, New Red Finance, Inc., as co-issuer, the guarantors from time to time party thereto and Wilmington Trust, National Association, as trustee and as collateral agent.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.15 to the Form 8-K of Registrant filed on April 7, 2020.
4.15(a)
Form of 5.750% First Lien Senior Secured Note due 2025 (included as Exhibit A to Exhibit 4.15).
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.15(a) to the Form 8-K of Registrant filed on April 7, 2020.
4.16
Indenture, dated as of October 5, 2020, by and among 1011778 B.C. Unlimited Liability Company, as issuer, New Red Finance, Inc., as co-issuer, the guarantors from time to time party thereto and Wilmington Trust, National Association, as trustee and collateral agent.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.16 to the Form 8-K of Registrant filed on October 13, 2020.
4.16(a)
Form of 4.000% Second Lien Senior Secured Notes due 2030 (included as Exhibit A to Exhibit 4.16)
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.16(a) to the Form 8-K of Registrant filed on October 13, 2020.
4.17
First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 2, 2020, by and among 1011778 B.C. Unlimited Liability Company, as issuer, New Red Finance, Inc., as co-issuer, the guarantors party thereto and Wilmington Trust, National Association, as trustee and collateral agent.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.18 to the Form 8-K of Registrant filed on November 2, 2020.
4.18
Indenture, dated as of November 9, 2020, by and among 1011778 B.C. Unlimited Liability Company, as issuer, New Red Finance, Inc., as co-issuer, the guarantors from time to time party thereto and Wilmington Trust, National Association, as trustee and collateral agent.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.18 to the Form 8-K of Registrant filed on November 9, 2020.
4.18(a)
Form of 3.500% First Lien Senior Secured Notes due 2029 (included as Exhibit A to Exhibit 4.18)
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.18(a) to the Form 8-K of Registrant filed on November 9, 2020.
9.1
  	
Voting Trust Agreement, dated December 12, 2014, between Restaurant Brands International Inc., Restaurant Brands International Limited Partnership, and Computershare Trust Company of Canada.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.6 to the Form 8-K of Registrant filed on December 12, 2014.
10.1*
  	
Burger King Savings Plan, including all amendments thereto.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.40 to the Form S-8 of Burger King Holdings, Inc. (File No. 333-144592).
10.2(a)*
  	
2011 Omnibus Incentive Plan, as amended effective December 12, 2014.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.4 to the Form S-8 of Registrant (File No. 333-200997).
10.4(a)*
  	
Amended and Restated 2012 Omnibus Incentive Plan, as amended effective December 12, 2014.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Form S-8 of Registrant (File No. 333-200997).
10.4(b)*
  	
Form of Option Award Agreement under the Burger King Worldwide, Inc. 2012 Omnibus Incentive Plan.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.25 to the Form 10-K of Burger King Worldwide, Inc. filed on February 22, 2013.
10.4(c)*
  	
Form of Matching Option Award Agreement under the Burger King Worldwide, Inc. 2012 Omnibus Incentive Plan.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.26 to the Form 10-K of Burger King Worldwide, Inc. filed on February 22, 2013.
10.4(d)*
  	
Form of Amendment to Option Award Agreement under the Burger King Worldwide Holdings, Inc. 2011 Omnibus Incentive Plan.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.28 to the Form 10-Q of Burger King Worldwide, Inc. filed on April 26, 2013.
10.4(e)*
  	
Form of Option Award Agreement under the Burger King Worldwide, Inc. Amended and Restated 2012 Omnibus Incentive Plan.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.29 to the Form 10-Q of Burger King Worldwide, Inc. filed on July 31, 2013.
10.4(f)*
  	
Form of Board Member Option Award Agreement under the Burger King Worldwide, Inc. Amended and Restated 2012 Omnibus Incentive Plan.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.30 to the Form 10-Q of Burger King Worldwide, Inc. filed on July 31, 2013.
 
102
Table of Contents
10.4(g)*
  	
Form of Option Award Agreement under the Amended and Restated 2012 Omnibus Incentive Plan.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.32 to the Form 10-Q of Burger King Worldwide, Inc. filed on October 28, 2013.
10.4(h)*
  	
Form of Board Member Option Award Agreement under the Amended and Restated 2012 Omnibus Incentive Plan.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.33 to the Form 10-Q of Burger King Worldwide, Inc. filed on October 28, 2013.
10.4(i)*
  	
Form of Board Member Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the Amended and Restated 2012 Omnibus Incentive Plan.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.35 to the Form 10-K of Burger King Worldwide, Inc. filed on February 21, 2014.
10.4(j)*
  	
Form of Matching Option Award Agreement under the Amended and Restated 2012 Omnibus Incentive Plan.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.36 to the Form 10-K of Burger King Worldwide, Inc. filed on February 21, 2014.
10.5
  	
Burger King Form of Director Indemnification Agreement.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K of Burger King Worldwide, Inc. filed on June 25, 2012.
10.7*
  	
Burger King Corporation U.S. Severance Pay Plan.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference Exhibit 10.31 to the Form 10-Q of Burger King Worldwide, Inc. filed on October 28, 2013.
10.10(a)
  	
Credit Agreement, dated October 27, 2014, among 1011778 B.C. Unlimited Liability Company, as the Parent Borrower, New Red Finance, Inc., as the Subsidiary Borrower, 1013421 B.C. Unlimited Liability Company, as Holdings, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent, the Lenders Party thereto, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Syndication Agent, the Parties listed thereto as Co-Documentation Agents, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, and Wells Fargo Securities LLC, as Joint Lead Arrangers, and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Wells Fargo Securities LLC, and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and Smith, Incorporated, as Joint Book Runners (the “Credit Agreement”).
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Form S-4 of Registrant (File No. 333-198769).
10.10(b)
  	
Guaranty, dated December 12, 2014, among 1013421 B.C. Unlimited Liability Company, as Guarantor, Certain Subsidiaries defined therein, as Guarantors, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Collateral Agent.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 8-K of Registrant filed on December 12, 2014.
10.10(c)
  	
Amendment No. 1, dated May 22, 2015, to the Credit Agreement.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K of Registrant filed on May 26, 2015.
10.10(d)
Amendment No. 2, dated February 17, 2017, to the Credit Agreement.

Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.10(d) to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on October 26, 2017.

10.10(e)
Incremental Facility Amendment, dated as of March 27, 2017, to the Credit Agreement.

Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.10(e) to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on October 26, 2017.

10.10(f)
Incremental Facility Amendment No. 2, dated as of May 17, 2017, to the Credit Agreement.

Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.42 to the Form 8-K of Registrant filed on May 17, 2017.

10.10(g)
Incremental Facility Amendment No. 3, dated as of October 13, 2017, to the Credit Agreement.

Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.45 to the Form 8-K of Registrant filed on October 16, 2017.

10.10(h)
Amendment No. 3, dated October 2, 2018, to the Credit Agreement.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.10(h) to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on October 24, 2018.
 
103
Table of Contents
10.10(i)
Incremental Facility Amendment No. 4, dated as of September 6, 2019, to the Credit Agreement, dated October 27, 2014, by and among 1011778 B.C. Unlimited Liability Company, as parent borrower, New Red Finance, Inc., as subsidiary borrower, 1013421 B.C. Unlimited Liability Company, the other guarantors party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, collateral agent and swing line lender, and the other lenders party thereto.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.66 to the Form 8-K of Registrant filed on September 9, 2019.

10.10(j)
Amendment No. 4, dated as of November 19, 2019, to the Credit Agreement, dated October 27, 2014, by and among 1011778 B.C. Unlimited Liability Company, as parent borrower, New Red Finance, Inc., as subsidiary borrower, 1013421 B.C. Unlimited Liability Company, the other guarantors party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, collateral agent and swing line lender, and the other lenders party thereto.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.68 to the Form 8-K of Registrant filed on November 20, 2019.

10.10(k)
Amendment No. 5, dated as of April 2, 2020, to the Credit Agreement, dated October 27, 2014, by and among 1011778 B.C. Unlimited Liability Company, as parent borrower, New Red Finance, Inc., as subsidiary borrower, 1013421 B.C. Unlimited Liability Company, the other guarantors party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, collateral agent and swing line lender, and the other lenders party thereto.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.71 to the Form 8-K of Registrant filed on April 3, 2020.
10.10(l)
Incremental Facility Amendment No. 5 and Amendment No. 6, dated as of December 13, 2021, to the Credit Agreement, dated October 27, 2014 (as amended), by and among 1011778 B.C. Unlimited Liability Company, as parent borrower, New Red Finance, Inc., as subsidiary borrower, 1013421 B.C. Unlimited Liability Company, the other guarantors party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, collateral agent and swing line lender, and the other lenders party thereto.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.80 to the Form 8-K of Registrant filed on December 15, 2021.
10.11(a)*
  	
2014 Omnibus Incentive Plan.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Form S-8 of Registrant (File No. 333-200997).
10.11(b)*
  	
Form of Option Award Agreement under the 2014 Omnibus Incentive Plan.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.11(b) to the Form 10-K of Registrant filed on March 2, 2015.
10.11(c)*
  	
Form of Base Matching Option Award Agreement under the 2014 Omnibus Incentive Plan.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.11(c) to the Form 10-K of Registrant filed on March 2, 2015.
10.11(d)*
  	
Form of Additional Matching Option Award Agreement under the 2014 Omnibus Incentive Plan.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.11(d) to the Form 10-K of Registrant filed on March 2, 2015.
10.11(e)*
  	
Form of Board Member Option Award Agreement under the 2014 Omnibus Incentive Plan.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.11(e) to the Form 10-K of Registrant filed on March 2, 2015.
10.11(f)*
  	
Form of Board Member Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2014 Omnibus Incentive Plan.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.11(f) to the Form 10-K of Registrant filed on March 2, 2015.
10.12
  	
Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement, dated December 11, 2014, between Restaurant Brands International Inc., 8997896 Canada Inc. and each person who is admitted as a Limited Partner in accordance with the terms of the agreement.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.5 to the Form 8-K of Registrant filed on December 12, 2014.
10.13
  	
Restaurant Brands International Inc. Form of Director Indemnification Agreement.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to the Form 10-K of Registrant filed on March 2, 2015.
10.17(a)*
  	
2012 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended effective December 12, 2014.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to the Form S-8 of Registrant (File No. 333-200997).

 
104
Table of Contents
10.17(b)*
  	
Tim Hortons Inc. Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement under the 2012 Stock Incentive Plan (2012 Award).
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Form 10-Q of Tim Hortons Inc. filed on August 9, 2012.
10.17(c)*
  	
Tim Hortons Inc. Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement under the 2012 Stock Incentive Plan (2013 Award).
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Form 10-Q of Tim Hortons Inc. filed on May 8, 2013.
10.17(d)*
  	
Tim Hortons Inc. Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement under the 2012 Stock Incentive Plan (2014 Award).
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Form 10-Q of Tim Hortons Inc. filed on August 6, 2014.
10.22*
  	
Employment and Post-Covenants Agreement dated as of February 3, 2015 between Restaurant Brands International Inc. and Joshua Kobza.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on May 5, 2015.
10.23*
  	
Employment and Post-Covenants Agreement dated as of February 3, 2015 between Burger King Corporation and Joshua Kobza.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.23 to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on May 5, 2015.
10.24*
  	
Employment and Post-Covenants Agreement dated as of February 3, 2015 between The TDL Group Corp. and Joshua Kobza.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.24 to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on May 5, 2015.
10.32*
  	
Form of Non-Compete, Non-Solicitation and Confidentiality Agreement.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.32 to the Form 10-K of Registrant filed on February 23, 2021.
10.33*
  	
Restaurant Brands International Inc. 2015 Employee Share Purchase Plan.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.30 to the Form S-8 of Registrant filed on September 1, 2015.
10.35(a)*
  	
Form of Base Matching Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2014 Omnibus Incentive Plan.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.35(a) to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on April 29, 2016.
10.35(b)*
  	
Form of Additional Matching Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2014 Omnibus Incentive Plan.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.35(b) to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on April 29, 2016.
10.35(c)*
  	
Form of Performance Award Agreement under the 2014 Omnibus Incentive Plan
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.35(c) to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on April 29, 2016.
10.35(d)*
  	
Form of Stock Option Award Agreement under the 2014 Omnibus Incentive Plan.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.35(d) to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on April 29, 2016.
10.36*
  	
Restaurant Brands International Inc. Amended and Restated 2014 Omnibus Incentive Plan, as amended.
  	
Filed herewith
10.36(a)*
Form of Performance Award Agreement (TH) under the Amended and Restated 2014 Omnibus Plan
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.73 to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on May 1, 2020.
10.36(b)*
Form Matching Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under the Amended and Restated 2014 Omnibus Plan
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.36(b) to the Form 10-K of Registrant filed on February 23, 2021.
10.36(c)*
Form Amended Performance Unit Agreement under the Amended and Restated 2014 Omnibus Plan
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.36(c) to the Form 10-K of Registrant filed on February 23, 2021.
10.36(d)*
Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under the Amended and Restated 2014 Omnibus Plan
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.36(d) to the Form 10-K of Registrant filed on February 23, 2021.
10.36(e)*
Form Performance Awards Agreement (TSR) under the Amended and Restated 2014 Omnibus Plan
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.36(e) to the Form 10-K of Registrant filed on February 23, 2021.
10.36(f)*
Form of Performance Award Agreement (Performance Measure and TSR) under the Amended and Restated 2014 Omnibus Plan.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.36(f) to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on May 3, 2021.
 
105
Table of Contents
10.36(g)*
Form of Performance Award Agreement (Relative TSR) under the Amended and Restated 2014 Omnibus Plan.
Filed herewith.
10.36(h)*
Form of Performance Award Agreement (Kobza 2023) under the Amended and Restated 2014 Omnibus Plan.
Filed herewith.
10.36(i)*
Form Matching Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (2023) under the Amended and Restated 2014 Omnibus Plan
Filed herewith.
10.36(j)*
Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (2023) under the Amended and Restated 2014 Omnibus Plan
Filed herewith.
10.37*
  	
Form of Restaurant Brands International Inc. Board Member Stock Option Award Agreement under the Amended and Restated 2014 Omnibus Incentive Plan.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.37 to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on October 24, 2016.
10.38*
  	
Restaurant Brands International Inc. U.S. Severance Pay Plan.
  	
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.38 to the Form 10-K of Registrant filed on February 17, 2017.
10.40*
Amendment No. 1 to Restaurant Brands International Inc. Amended and Restated 2014 Omnibus Incentive Plan.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.39 to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on April 26, 2017.

10.41*
Form of Base Matching Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the Amended and Restated 2014 Omnibus Incentive Plan.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.40 to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on April 26, 2017.

10.42*
Form of Additional Matching Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the Amended and Restated 2014 Omnibus Incentive Plan.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.41 to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on April 26, 2017.

10.49(a)*
Employment and Post-Employment Covenants Agreement dated as of February 9, 2015 by and between The TDL Group Corp. and Jill Granat.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.49(a) to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed April 24, 2018.
10.49(b)*
Employment and Post-Employment Covenants Agreement dated as of February 9, 2015 by and between Restaurant Brands International Inc. and Jill Granat.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.49(b) to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed April 24, 2018.
10.49(c)*
Employment and Post-Employment Covenants Agreement dated as of February 9, 2015 by and between Burger King Corporation and Jill Granat.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.49(c) to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed April 24, 2018.
10.50*
Employment and Post-Employment Covenants Agreement dated as of January 22, 2018 by and between The TDL Group Corp. and Matthew Dunnigan.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.50 to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on April 29, 2019.

10.51*
Employment and Post-Employment Covenants Agreement dated as of January 22, 2018 by and between Restaurant Brands International Inc. and Matthew Dunnigan.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.51 to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on April 29, 2019.
10.52*
Employment and Post-Employment Covenants Agreement dated as of January 22, 2018 by and between Restaurant Brands International U.S. Services LLC and Matthew Dunnigan.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.52 to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on April 29, 2019.

10.53*
Employment and Post-Employment Covenants Agreement dated as of January 23, 2019 by and between The TDL Group Corp. and Jose E. Cil.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.53 to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on April 29, 2019.

10.54*
Employment and Post-Employment Covenants Agreement dated as of January 23, 2019 by and between Restaurant Brands International Inc. and Jose E. Cil.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.54 to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on April 29, 2019.
10.55*
Employment and Post-Employment Covenants Agreement dated as of January 23, 2019 by and between Burger King Corporation and Jose E. Cil.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.55 to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on April 29, 2019.
 
106
Table of Contents
10.59*
Amendment dated January 23, 2019 to Employment and Post-Covenants Agreement dated as of February 9, 2015 between Restaurant Brands International Inc. and Joshua Kobza.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.59 to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on April 29, 2019.
10.60*
Amendment dated January 23, 2019 to Employment and Post-Covenants Agreement dated as of February 9, 2015 between Burger King Corporation and Joshua Kobza.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.60 to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on April 29, 2019.
10.61*
Amendment dated January 23, 2019 to Employment and Post-Covenants Agreement dated as of February 9, 2015 between The TDL Group Corp. and Joshua Kobza.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.61 to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on April 29, 2019.
10.62*
Form of Performance Award Agreement under Amended and Restated 2014 Omnibus Incentive Plan.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.62 to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on April 29, 2019.
10.63*
Amended and Restated Performance Award Agreement dated as of May 17, 2019 by and between Restaurant Brands International Inc. and Daniel Schwartz.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.63 to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on August 2, 2019.
10.64*
Form of Amended and Restated Base Matching Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement dated as of May 17, 2019 by and between Restaurant Brands International Inc. and Daniel Schwartz.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.64 to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on August 2, 2019.
10.65*
Form of Amended and Restated Additional Matching Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement dated as of May 17, 2019 by and between Restaurant Brands International Inc. and Daniel Schwartz.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.65 to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on August 2, 2019.
10.77*
Offer Letter dated February 26, 2021 between The TDL Group Corp. and Axel Schwan.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.77 to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on April 30, 2021.
10.78*
Tax Equalization Agreement dated December 21, 2020 between Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen, Inc. and Sami Siddiqui.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.78 to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on April 30, 2021.
10.80
Offer Letter dated December 8, 2020 among Burger King Europe GmbH, PLK Europe GmbH, and Tim Hortons Restaurants International GmbH and David Shear.
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.80 to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on May 3, 2022.
10.81
Tax Equalization Agreement dated April 30, 2021 between Burger King Europe GmbH and David Shear.
Incorporated here by reference to Exhibit 10.81 to the Form 10-Q of Registrant filed on May 3, 2022.
10.82
Stock Purchase Agreement, dated November 15, 2022, between Restaurant Brands International Inc. and Lodgepole 231 LLC
Incorporated here by reference to Exhibit 10.82 to the Form 8-K of Registrant filed on November 16, 2022.
10.83
Offer Letter, dated November 15, 2022, between J. Patrick Doyle and Restaurant Brands International US Services LLC
Incorporated here by reference to Exhibit 10.83 to the Form 8-K of Registrant filed on November 16, 2022.
10.84
Form of Option Award Agreement for J. Patrick Doyle.
Incorporated here by reference to Exhibit 10.84 to the Form 8-K of Registrant filed on November 16, 2022.
10.85
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement for J. Patrick Doyle
Incorporated here by reference to Exhibit 10.85 to the Form 8-K of Registrant filed on November 16, 2022.
10.86
Form of Performance Award Agreement
Incorporated here by reference to Exhibit 10.86 to the Form 8-K of Registrant filed on November 16, 2022.
10.87(a)*
Agreement dated February 13, 2023 terminating Employment Agreements between Jose E. Cil and each of Restaurant Brands International Inc. and The TDL Group Corp.
Filed herewith.
10.87(b)*
Amendment dated February 13, 2023 to Employment Agreement between Burger King Company LLC and Jose E. Cil
Filed herewith.
 
107
Table of Contents
10.87(c)*
Separation Agreement dated February 13, 2023 between Burger King Company LLC and Jose E. Cil.
Filed herewith.
21.1
  	
List of Subsidiaries of the Registrant.
  	
Filed herewith.
23.1
  	
Consent of KPMG LLP.
  	
Filed herewith.
31.1
  	
Certification of Chief Executive Officer of Restaurant Brands International Inc. pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
  	
Filed herewith.
31.2
  	
Certification of Chief Financial Officer of Restaurant Brands International Inc. pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
  	
Filed herewith.
32.1
  	
Certification of Chief Executive Officer of Restaurant Brands International Inc. pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
  	
Furnished herewith.
32.2
  	
Certification of Chief Financial Officer of Restaurant Brands International Inc. pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
  	
Furnished herewith.
101.INS	  	XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document	  	Filed herewith.
101.SCH	  	XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.	  	Filed herewith.
101.CAL	  	XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.	  	Filed herewith.
101.DEF	  	XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.	  	Filed herewith.
101.LAB	  	XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.	  	Filed herewith.
101.PRE	  	XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.	  	Filed herewith.
104		Cover Page Interactive File		Formatted as Inline XBRL and contained in Exhibit 101.
*		Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
 
 Certain instruments relating to long-term borrowings, constituting less than 10 percent of the total assets of the Registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, are not filed as exhibits herewith pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K. The Registrant agrees to furnish copies of such instruments to the SEC upon request.
Item 16. Form 10-K Summary
None.

Signatures
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Restaurant Brands International Inc.
By:	 	/s/ José E. Cil
 	Name:	 	José E. Cil
 	Title:	 	Chief Executive Officer
 
Date: February 22, 2023
108
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
  
Signature	  	Title	 	Date
/s/ José E. Cil	  	Chief Executive Officer	 	February 22, 2023
José E. Cil	  	(principal executive officer)	 	
/s/ Matthew Dunnigan	  	Chief Financial Officer	 	February 22, 2023
Matthew Dunnigan	  	(principal financial officer)	 	
/s/ Jacqueline Friesner	  	Controller and Chief Accounting Officer	 	February 22, 2023
Jacqueline Friesner	  	(principal accounting officer)	 	
/s/ J. Patrick Doyle		Executive Chairman		February 22, 2023
J. Patrick Doyle				
/s/ Alexandre Behring	  	Director	 	February 22, 2023
Alexandre Behring	  		 	
/s/ Joao M. Castro-Neves		Director		February 22, 2023
Joao M. Castro-Neves				
/s/ Maximilien de Limburg Stirum	  	Director	 	February 22, 2023
Maximilien de Limburg Stirum	  		 	
/s/ Paul J. Fribourg	  	Director	 	February 22, 2023
Paul J. Fribourg	  		 	
/s/ Ali Hedayat	  	Director	 	February 22, 2023
Ali Hedayat	  		 	
/s/ Golnar Khosrowshahi	  	Director	 	February 22, 2023
Golnar Khosrowshahi	  		 	
/s/ Marc Lemann		Director		February 22, 2023
Marc Lemann				
/s/ Jason Melbourne		Director		February 22, 2023
Jason Melbourne				
/s/ Cristina Farjallat		Director		February 22, 2023
Cristina Farjallat				
/s/ Daniel Schwartz		Director		February 22, 2023
Daniel Schwartz				
/s/ Thecla Sweeney	  	Director	 	February 22, 2023
Thecla Sweeney	  		 	
 
109
What do you wish to search?
tell me about the ceo of wendys
I understand, here is info on Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance:

What do you wish to search?
what risks does wendys face, thanks
you're welcome
I understand, here is info on Item 1A. Risk Factors:
 Item 1A. Risk Factors.
 
 We wish to caution readers that in addition to the important factors described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, we have included below certain material factors that have affected, or in the future could affect, our actual results and could cause our actual consolidated results during fiscal 2023, and beyond, to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf.
 
 Risks Related to Macroeconomic and Industry Conditions
 
 Competition from other restaurant companies, as well as grocery chains and other retail food outlets, or poor customer experience at Wendy’s restaurants, could hurt our brand.
 
 The market segments in which Wendy’s restaurants compete are highly competitive with respect to, among other things, price, food quality and presentation, service, location, convenience and the nature and condition of the restaurant facility. If customers have a poor experience at a Wendy’s restaurant, whether at a Company-operated or franchised restaurant, we may experience a decrease in customer counts. Further, Wendy’s restaurants compete with a variety of locally owned restaurants, as well as competitive regional, national and global restaurant chains. Several of these chains compete by offering menu items that are targeted at certain consumer groups or dietary trends. Additionally, many of our competitors have introduced lower cost value meal menu options and have employed marketing strategies that include frequent use of price discounting (including through the use of coupons and other offers), frequent promotions and heavy advertising expenditures. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do, which may allow them to react to changes in pricing and marketing strategies better than we can and drive higher levels of brand awareness among consumers. This product and price competition could result in reduced revenues and loss of market share.
 
 Moreover, new companies, including operators outside the quick-service restaurant industry, may enter market areas in which Wendy’s restaurants operate and target our customer base. For example, additional competitive pressures for prepared food purchases have come from deli sections and in-store cafes of a number of major grocery store chains, as well as from convenience stores, casual dining outlets and food delivery providers. Such competitors may have, among other things, lower operating costs, better locations, better facilities, more effective marketing and more efficient operations. Wendy’s also competes with grocery chains and other retail outlets or concepts that sell food to be prepared at home. Competition with these chains and other outlets could increase based on the gap between the price of food prepared at home compared to the price of food purchased at restaurants. This increased product and price competition could put deflationary pressure on the selling price of products offered at Wendy’s restaurants. All such competition may adversely affect our brand, business, results of operations and financial condition.
 
 Adverse economic conditions or disruptions in the national and global economies, or in regions that have a high concentration of Wendy’s restaurants, could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.
 
 Adverse economic conditions or disruptions in the national and global economies could result in higher unemployment rates, labor shortages, increases in inflation and interest rates and declines in consumer confidence and spending. If such disruptions occur, they may result in significant declines in consumer food-away-from-home spending and customer counts in Wendy’s restaurants. There can be no assurance that government responses to economic disruptions will restore consumer confidence. Ongoing disruptions in the national and global economies may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, adverse economic conditions in regions that contain a high concentration of Wendy’s restaurants, including markets in which Company-operated restaurants are located, could also have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.
 
 Changes in discretionary consumer spending, and in consumer tastes and preferences, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.
 
 The success of the Wendy’s system depends to a significant extent on discretionary consumer spending, which is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. Material declines in the amount of discretionary spending or consumer food-away-from-home spending could hurt our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, significant increases in expenses incurred by consumers, such as living expenses or gasoline prices, could also adversely affect our business. Our success also depends to a large extent on continued consumer acceptance of our offerings, the success of our operating, promotional, marketing and new product development initiatives and the reputation of our brand. If we are unable to continue to achieve consumer acceptance or adapt to changes in consumer preferences, including
 16
 
 with respect to nutrition, health or dietary trends or environmental or social concerns, Wendy’s restaurants may lose customers, and the resulting revenues from Company-operated restaurants and the royalties that we receive from franchisees may decline.
 
 The COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted and could continue to disrupt our business, which has materially affected and could continue to materially affect our results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
 
 The COVID-19 pandemic and related protective measures have adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our business. During the height of the pandemic, our customer counts and systemwide sales were significantly negatively impacted. Even as mobility increases, customers have been and may continue to be reluctant to return to in-restaurant dining. Our restaurant operations have been and could continue to be disrupted by the pandemic, including restaurant and dining room closures, labor shortages or increased labor costs. Furthermore, the pandemic has led, and could again lead, to interruptions in the delivery of food or other supplies to Wendy’s restaurants arising from delays or restrictions on shipping or manufacturing, labor shortages and increased labor costs, closures of supplier or distributor facilities or financial distress of suppliers or distributors. These delays or interruptions have impacted, and could continue to impact, the availability of certain food items at Wendy’s restaurants, including beef, chicken, pork and other core menu products. Our results of operations and those of our franchisees could be adversely affected if our key suppliers or distributors are unable to fulfill their responsibilities and we are unable to timely identify and transition the impacted business to alternative suppliers or distributors. The pandemic has had, and could again have, an adverse effect on new restaurant development, as well as on our franchisees’ operations and financial condition. To the extent the pandemic causes development delays, or leads to the financial distress of our franchisees, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be impacted. Such risks and other potential impacts from the pandemic could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources, which may impede our ability to comply with our debt covenants or access additional capital. In addition to the risks described above, the pandemic has had, and could continue to have, the effect of heightening other risks disclosed in this risk factors section, including, but not limited to, those related to brand value and perception, consumer preferences and spending, our ability to achieve or maintain market share, new restaurant development, commodity costs, labor, supply chain and purchasing and international operations. We cannot predict the ultimate duration, scope or severity of the pandemic or its ultimate impact on our results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
 
 Risks Related to Brand Perception and Value
 
 Our success depends substantially on our corporate reputation and on the value and perception of our brand.
 
 Our success depends in large part upon our ability to maintain and enhance the value of our brand, our customers’ loyalty to our brand and a positive relationship with our franchisees and other business partners. Brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities. Business incidents, whether isolated or recurring, and whether originating from us, our franchisees or our business partners, can significantly reduce brand value and consumer trust, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation. For example, our brand could be damaged by claims or perceptions about the quality or safety of our products or the quality or reputation of our franchisees or other business partners, regardless of whether such claims or perceptions are true. Our brand could also be adversely impacted by other incidents described in this risk factors section, including incidents related to customer service, health or safety, a failure to attract and retain qualified employees, food safety or other health concerns regarding our products, the impact of social media, data privacy violations, cyber incidents, environmental, social and governance matters or reports of our employees, franchisees or business partners taking controversial positions or acting in an unethical, illegal or socially irresponsible manner. Any such incidents could cause a decline in consumer confidence in our brand and reduce consumer demand for our products, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
 
 Our results of operations and the value and perception of our brand depend in part on the effectiveness of our marketing and advertising programs and the successful development and launch of new products.
 
 Our results of operations and the value and perception of our brand are heavily influenced by brand marketing and advertising and by our ability to develop and launch new and innovative products. Our marketing and advertising programs may not be successful, or we may fail to develop commercially successful new products, which may impact our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and the value and perception of our brand. Moreover, because franchisees contribute to advertising funds based on a percentage of sales at their franchised restaurants, advertising fund expenditures are dependent upon sales volumes across the Wendy’s system. If systemwide sales decline, this could result in a reduced amount of funds available for our marketing and advertising programs. In addition, to the extent we use value offerings or other promotions or discounts in our marketing and advertising
 17
 
 programs to drive customer counts, these actions may condition our customers to resist higher menu prices or result in reduced demand for premium products.
 
 Our inability or failure to recognize, respond to and effectively manage the accelerated impact of social media could adversely impact our brand, business and results of operations.
 
 Social media platforms, including forms of internet-based communications, allow individuals access to a broad audience. The availability of information on social media platforms is virtually immediate and has given users the ability to more effectively organize collective actions such as boycotts and other brand-damaging behaviors. The dissemination of information via social media, whether accurate or inaccurate, could harm our business, brand, reputation, results of operation and financial condition. This damage may be immediate, without an opportunity to correct inaccurate information or respond to or address particular issues. In addition, as part of our marketing efforts, we frequently use social media to communicate with consumers in order to build their awareness of, engagement with and loyalty to our brand. Our failure to use social media effectively or appropriately, particularly as compared to our competitors, could lead to a decline in brand value, customer visits and revenues. Laws and regulations governing the use of social media continue to rapidly evolve. A failure by us, our employees, our franchisees or third parties acting on our behalf to abide by applicable laws and regulations in the use of social media could adversely impact our reputation, brand, results of operations and financial condition or subject us to litigation, fines or other penalties. Social media risks could also arise from employees not following defined policies for the use of social media during business operations, or actions taken by employees during personal activities outside of their employment, but which could still reflect negatively on the Wendy’s brand.
 
 We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brand and hurt our business.
 
 Our intellectual property is material to the conduct of our business. We rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, service marks, trade secrets and similar intellectual property rights to protect our brand and other intellectual property. The success of our business strategy depends, in part, on our continued ability to use our trademarks and service marks to increase brand awareness and further develop our branded products in existing and new markets. If our efforts to protect our intellectual property are not adequate, or if any third party misappropriates, infringes, dilutes or otherwise violates our intellectual property, the value of our brand may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we try to ensure that the quality of our brand is maintained by our franchisees, we cannot ensure that franchisees will not take actions that hurt the value of our intellectual property or the reputation of the Wendy’s brand or restaurant system. Any damage or violation of our intellectual property could harm our image, brand or competitive position and result in significant legal fees and the diversion of resources. If we do not attempt or are unable to successfully protect, maintain or enforce our intellectual property rights, there could be a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations as a result of, among other things, consumer confusion, dilution of the Wendy’s brand or increased competition from unauthorized users of our brand.
 
 We have registered certain trademarks and have other trademark registrations pending in the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions. Not all of the trademarks that are used in the Wendy’s system have been registered in all of the countries in which we do business or may do business in the future, and some trademarks will never be registered in all of these countries. Some countries’ laws make unregistered trademarks more difficult to enforce, or do not protect them at all, and third parties have filed, or may in the future file, for “Wendy’s” or similar marks. Accordingly, we may not be able to adequately protect the Wendy’s brand everywhere in the world and use of the Wendy’s brand may result in liability for trademark infringement, trademark dilution or unfair competition. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We cannot ensure that all of the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property in the United States and foreign countries will be adequate.
 
 We cannot ensure that third parties will not bring infringement claims against us in the future. Any such claim, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, cause delays in introducing new menu items, require costly modifications to advertising and promotional materials, harm our brand, image, competitive position or ability to expand our operations into other jurisdictions, cause us to incur significant costs related to defense or settlement or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. As a result, any such claim could harm our business and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, third parties may assert that certain of our intellectual property, or our rights therein, are invalid or unenforceable. If our rights in any of our intellectual property were found to infringe third-party rights, or portions thereof were deemed invalid or unenforceable, we may be forced to defend or resolve related claims and incur related expenses. In addition, such loss of rights could permit competing uses of such intellectual property which, in turn, could harm our business and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.
 
 18
 
 Food safety events or health concerns regarding our products could create negative publicity and adversely affect our brand, business and results of operations.
 
 Food safety is a top priority for Wendy’s, and we dedicate substantial resources to food safety matters to ensure our customers enjoy safe, quality food products. However, food safety events, including instances of food-borne illness (such as salmonella or E. coli), have occurred in the food industry in the past, and could occur in the future. For example, in August 2022, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (the “CDC”) began investigating a multistate outbreak of E. coli in which many of the impacted individuals reported having eaten at a Wendy’s restaurant and most reported consuming sandwich romaine lettuce. The Company cooperated with the CDC’s investigation and, as a precautionary measure, removed sandwich romaine lettuce from its restaurants in the relevant region. In October 2022, the CDC announced that the outbreak was over and that the specific source of the outbreak had not been confirmed. The Company was referenced in news stories related to the outbreak, and the Company (and others) have been named in various claims and lawsuits related to the outbreak. Food safety events, whether or not involving Wendy’s restaurants or other restaurant companies, could adversely affect the price and availability of certain products and result in negative publicity for Wendy’s or the restaurant industry. This negative publicity may reduce demand for Wendy’s food and could result in a decrease in customer counts to Wendy’s restaurants as consumers shift their preferences to our competitors or to other products or food types. Any report linking our restaurants or suppliers to food-borne illnesses, food tampering, contamination or mislabeling or other food-safety issues could damage the value of our brand immediately and severely hurt sales of our products and possibly lead to product liability claims, litigation (including class actions) or other damages. The Wendy’s system may also be adversely impacted by consumer concerns regarding the nutritional aspects of the products we sell, the ingredients in our products or the cooking processes used in our restaurants. These or similar concerns could result in less demand for our products and a decline in sales at Company-operated restaurants and in royalties from sales at franchised restaurants.
 
 Risks Related to Our Business Strategy
 
 We may be unable to deliver accelerated global sales growth or achieve or maintain market share across our dayparts.
 
 Our business strategy includes a focus on driving strong sales momentum across all of our dayparts through exciting menu innovation, compelling value offerings and operational excellence. However, we may be unable to deliver accelerated global sales growth or achieve or maintain market share across our dayparts due to competitive pressures and other factors, such as consumer tastes and preferences, the effectiveness of our marketing and advertising programs, the successful development and launch of new products, commodity and labor costs, providing fast and accurate customer experiences, further accelerating our digital business, driving new restaurant development and ensuring the support and engagement of franchisees. For example, Wendy’s recently entered the breakfast daypart in the United States and Canada with a breakfast program designed to drive incremental sales and profits through a strong economic model. Our inability to successfully execute on our strategy for the breakfast daypart and reach targeted levels of sales and profits could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
 
 Our predominantly franchised business model presents a number of risks.
 
 As of January 1, 2023, approximately 95% of restaurants in the Wendy’s system were operated by franchisees. Wendy’s franchisees are contractually obligated to operate their restaurants in accordance with the standards set forth in our franchise and other agreements with them. Wendy’s also provides training and support to franchisees. However, franchisees are independent third parties that we do not control, and franchisees own, operate and oversee the daily operations of their restaurants. Specifically, franchisees are solely responsible for developing and utilizing their own policies and procedures, making their own hiring, firing and disciplinary decisions, scheduling hours and establishing wages and managing their day-to-day employment processes and procedures in accordance with applicable laws, rules and regulations, all of which is done independent of Wendy’s. Further, franchisees have discretion as to the prices charged to customers. As a result, the ultimate success and quality of any franchise restaurant rests with the franchisee. If franchisees do not successfully operate their restaurants in a manner consistent with required standards, their royalty payments to us could be adversely affected and our brand’s image and reputation could be harmed, which in turn, could hurt our business and results of operations. In addition, the failure of franchisees to adequately engage in succession planning may adversely affect their restaurant operations and development of new Wendy’s restaurants, which in turn could hurt our business and results of operations.
 
 Wendy’s franchisees are an integral part of our business, growth and brand strategies, and difficulties in identifying, attracting and retaining franchisees who meet our criteria could harm our business and brand. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if a significant number of franchisees do not participate in brand strategies, such as new restaurant development, Image Activation, marketing and menu programs and digital commerce platforms and technologies,
 19
 
 which in turn may harm our business and financial condition. In addition, Wendy’s current franchise model, and the way our brand strategies are executed across the system, may make it difficult for our brand to respond and adapt to the speed of change in technology, consumer preferences or other factors as quickly as may be required to maintain and grow market share and remain competitive. Certain of our competitors that have a significantly higher percentage of company-operated restaurants than we do may have greater influence over their respective restaurant systems and greater ability to implement operational initiatives and business strategies.
 
 We receive revenues in the form of royalties and national advertising funds contributions (both of which are generally based on a percentage of sales at franchised restaurants), as well as rent and fees from franchisees. Accordingly, a substantial portion of our financial results is to a large extent dependent upon the operational and financial success of our franchisees. If sales trends or economic conditions worsen for franchisees, or if the overall business or financial health of franchisees deteriorates, their results of operations or financial condition may worsen and our royalty, national advertising funds, rent and other fee revenues may decline. Additionally, when Company-operated restaurants with leased real estate are sold to franchisees, we are often required to remain responsible for lease payments for these restaurants in the event the purchasing franchisees default on their leases. Similarly, when we lease or sublease properties to franchisees, we remain responsible for certain expenses related to the properties, such as lease payments and maintenance charges. If franchisees fail to renew their franchise agreements or fail to perform under or extend their leases or subleases with us, or if we are unable to identify, attract and retain new franchisees who meet our criteria, then our royalty and rental revenues may decrease and our future growth could be adversely affected.
 
 The growth of our business is dependent on new restaurant openings, which could be affected by factors beyond our control.
 
 Our business derives earnings from sales at Company-operated restaurants as well as royalties and other fees received from franchised restaurants. Growth in our revenues and earnings is dependent on new restaurant openings. Numerous factors beyond our control may adversely affect new restaurant openings, which in turn could hurt our business and results of operations. These factors include, among others: (i) our ability to attract new franchisees; (ii) the availability of site locations for new restaurants; (iii) the ability of restaurant owners to obtain financing; (iv) the ability of restaurant owners to attract, train and retain qualified operating personnel; (v) construction and development costs; (vi) the ability of restaurant owners to secure required governmental approvals and permits in a timely manner, or at all; (vii) the ability of us and our franchises to execute our development strategy for non-traditional restaurants, such as fuel and transportation centers, food courts and other retail locations, military bases and delivery kitchens; and (viii) adverse weather conditions. Our inability to identify suitable locations, achieve consumer acceptance or otherwise execute our development strategy could have an adverse impact on our future growth, results of operations and financial condition.
 
 Our Image Activation program may not positively affect sales or improve our results of operations, and franchisees may not participate in our Image Activation program to the extent expected by us.
 
 We continue to implement our Image Activation program, which includes reimaging existing Wendy’s restaurants and building new Wendy’s restaurants with innovative exterior and interior restaurant designs. Our Image Activation program may not positively affect sales at Wendy’s restaurants or improve our results of operations. There can also be no assurance that franchisees will participate in the Image Activation program to the extent expected by the Company. In order to support our Image Activation program and promote new restaurant development, we have provided franchisees with certain incentive programs for qualifying new and reimaged restaurants, including waivers or reductions in royalty, national advertising and technical assistance fees and options for the early renewal of franchise agreements. It is possible we may provide additional financial incentives to franchisees, which could result in additional expenses, a reduction of royalties or other revenues or the incurrence of other costs or liabilities. Some franchisees may need to borrow funds in order to reimage existing restaurants or build new restaurants under the Image Activation program. If franchisees are unable to obtain financing at commercially reasonable rates, or at all, they may be unwilling or unable to invest in the reimaging of their existing restaurants or the development of new restaurants, and our future growth and results of operations could be adversely affected.
 
 We may be unable to manage effectively the acquisition and disposition of restaurants, or successfully implement other strategic initiatives, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial results.
 
 We continue to optimize the Wendy’s system through our system optimization initiative, which includes facilitating the transfer of restaurants between and among franchisees, as well as evaluating strategic acquisitions of franchised restaurants and strategic dispositions of Company-operated restaurants to existing and new franchisees, to further strengthen the franchisee base, drive new restaurant development and accelerate adoption of our Image Activation program. The success of this initiative
 20
 
 is dependent upon many factors, such as the availability of sellers and buyers, the availability of financing, the ability to negotiate transactions on terms deemed acceptable and the ability to successfully transition and integrate restaurant operations. Acquisitions of franchised restaurants pose various risks to our operations, including (i) diversion of management’s attention to the integration of acquired restaurant operations; (ii) increased operating expenses and the inability to achieve expected cost savings and operating efficiencies; (iii) exposure to liabilities arising out of prior operations of acquired restaurants; and (iv) the assumption of long-term, non-cancelable leases. Our system optimization initiative also places demands on our operational and financial management resources and may require us to expand these resources. If we are unable to execute our system optimization initiative or effectively manage the acquisition and disposition of restaurants, our business and financial results could be adversely affected.
 
 In addition, Wendy’s from time to time evaluates and may pursue other opportunities for growth, including through new and existing franchise partners, joint venture investments, expansion of our brand through other opportunities and strategic mergers, acquisitions and divestitures. These strategic initiatives involve various risks, including general transaction and business risk, integration and synergy risk, market acceptance risk and risks associated with the potential diversion of management’s attention. Strategic transactions may not ultimately create value for us or our stockholders and may harm our reputation and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.
 
 Our leasing and ownership of significant amounts of real estate exposes us to possible liabilities and losses, including liabilities associated with environmental matters.
 
 We have significant real estate operations in connection with our business and are subject to the normal risks associated with owning, leasing and subleasing real estate. Our real estate values and the costs associated with our real estate operations are impacted by a variety of factors, including changes in the investment climate for real estate, macroeconomic trends, governmental regulations, infrastructure, condemnation or eminent domain, insurance, demographic trends, supply chain management, supply and demand for the ownership and operation of restaurants and environmental matters. A significant decrease in real estate values or increase in real estate costs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.
 
 We are subject to federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning the discharge, storage, handling, release and disposal of hazardous or toxic substances. These environmental laws provide for significant fines, penalties and liabilities, sometimes without regard to whether the owner, operator or occupant of the property knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. Third parties may also make claims against owners, operators or occupants of properties for personal injuries and property damage associated with releases of or exposure to such substances. A number of our restaurant sites were formerly gas stations or are adjacent to current or former gas stations or were used for other commercial activities that can create environmental impacts. While we employ environmental review standards and practices in the current development of our real estate, we have not conducted a comprehensive environmental review of all of our properties and we may not have identified all of the potential environmental liabilities at our leased and owned properties, and any such liabilities identified in the future could cause us to incur significant costs, including costs associated with litigation, fines or clean-up responsibilities. We cannot predict the amount of future expenditures that may be required in order to comply with any environmental laws or regulations or to satisfy any such claims.
 
 We generally secure long-term real estate interests for our leased restaurants and have limited flexibility to quickly alter our real estate portfolio. Many leases provide that the rent will increase over the term of the lease and any renewals of the term. Most leases require us to pay the costs of insurance, taxes, maintenance, utilities and capital repairs and replacements. We generally cannot cancel these leases prior to the expiration of their term. If an existing or future restaurant is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying rent, taxes and maintenance costs for the balance of the lease term. In addition, as our leases expire, we may fail to negotiate additional renewals or renewal options, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close restaurants in desirable locations, negatively impacting our results of operations.
 
 Our international operations are subject to various risks and uncertainties and there is no assurance that our international operations will continue to be profitable.
 
 In addition to many of the factors described in this risk factors section, our business outside of the United States is subject to a number of additional risks and uncertainties, including international economic and political conditions, risk of corruption and violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar laws of other countries, the inability to adapt to differing cultures or consumer preferences, inadequate brand infrastructure to support our international activities, inability to obtain adequate supplies meeting our quality standards and product specifications or interruptions in obtaining such supplies,
 21
 
 challenges and risks associated with managing and monitoring suppliers, restrictions on our ability to move cash out of certain foreign countries, currency regulations and fluctuations, diverse government regulations and tax systems, uncertain or differing interpretations of rights and obligations in connection with international franchise agreements, the collection of royalties and other fees from international franchisees, the inability to protect technology, data or intellectual property rights, compliance with international privacy and information security laws and regulations, the availability and cost of land, construction costs, other legal, financial or regulatory impediments to the development or operation of restaurants, the inability to identify, attract and retain experienced management, qualified franchisees and joint venture partners and ongoing disruptions and impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic. Adverse conditions or unforeseen events in countries that contain a high concentration of Wendy’s restaurants (including Canada, our largest international market), could have a material adverse impact on our international growth strategy and results of operations. In addition, to the extent we invest in international Company-operated restaurants or joint ventures, we would also have the risk of operating losses related to those restaurants, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that our international growth strategy will be successful or that our international operations will be profitable.
 
 For example, Wendy’s entered the United Kingdom in 2021, plans to expand into other anchor markets in Europe utilizing a franchise model and intends to accelerate restaurant development in other existing international markets. New and emerging markets may have lower brand awareness as well as competitive conditions, consumer tastes and preferences, discretionary spending patterns and social and cultural differences that are more difficult to predict or satisfy than our existing markets. We may need to make greater investments than we originally planned in advertising and promotional activity to build brand awareness, which could negatively impact the profitability of our operations. In addition, we may be unable to obtain desirable locations for new restaurants at reasonable prices, or at all, and restaurants may have higher construction, occupancy, food and labor costs than we currently anticipate. Any of these risks and uncertainties, and other factors we cannot anticipate, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
 
 Risks Related to Supply Chain and Labor
 
 Changes in commodity costs and other operating costs could adversely affect our results of operations.
 
 Our profitability depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in commodity costs (including beef, chicken, pork, dairy and grains), supplies, fuel, utilities, distribution and other operating costs, including labor costs. Increases in commodity costs have adversely impacted and could continue to adversely impact our results of operations. Our business is susceptible to increases in commodity and other operating costs as a result of various factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions, inflation, industry demand, energy costs, food safety concerns, animal disease outbreaks, product recalls and government regulations. Increasing weather volatility or other long-term changes in weather patterns, including related to climate change, could have a significant impact on the price or availability of some of our ingredients. In addition, our supply chain is subject to increased costs arising from actual or perceived effects of climate change, greenhouse gas emissions and scarcity of energy and water resources. The ongoing and long-term costs of these impacts could have a material adverse effect on our business if not properly mitigated. We could also be adversely impacted by the cost of products raised or grown in accordance with our responsible sourcing criteria, including those related to environmental sustainability and animal welfare, as the availability of products that can be assured to meet those criteria are generally smaller and more concentrated, and may be more costly, than the markets for conventionally raised or grown products that are not assured to meet those criteria. We cannot predict whether we will be able to anticipate and react to changing commodity costs by adjusting our purchasing practices and menu prices, and a failure to do so could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we may not seek to or be able to pass along price increases to our customers. If increased costs were passed to our customers, demand for our products may decrease, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations.
 
 Shortages or interruptions in the supply or distribution of perishable food products could damage our brand and adversely affect our business and results of operations.
 
 Wendy’s and our franchisees are dependent on frequent deliveries of perishable food products that meet brand specifications. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of perishable food products caused by unanticipated demand, problems in production or distribution, labor shortages, disease or food-borne illnesses, political unrest, health epidemics or pandemics, inclement weather or other calamities or conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients, which could lower revenues, increase operating costs, damage brand reputation and otherwise harm our business and the businesses of our franchisees. Certain of the products sold in our restaurants, such as beef and chicken, are sourced from a limited number of suppliers, which may increase our reliance on those suppliers. In addition, our system relies on a limited number of in-line distributors to deliver certain food, packaging and beverage products to our restaurants. If a disruption of service from any of our key suppliers or distributors was to occur, we could experience short-term increases in our costs while
 22
 
 supply and distribution channels were adjusted, and we may be unable to identify or negotiate with new suppliers or distributors on terms that are commercially reasonable to us.
 
 We do not exercise ultimate control over purchasing for our restaurant system, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.
 
 While we require and seek to ensure that all suppliers to the Wendy’s system meet certain quality control standards, our franchisees ultimately control the purchasing of food, proprietary paper, equipment and other operating supplies from third party suppliers through QSCC, Wendy’s independent purchasing co-op. QSCC manages, for the Wendy’s system in the United States and Canada, contracts for the purchase and distribution of food, proprietary paper, equipment and other operating supplies under national agreements with pricing based on total system volume. We do not control the decisions and activities of QSCC. If QSCC does not properly estimate the product needs of the Wendy’s system, makes poor purchasing decisions or ceases its operations, or if our relationship with QSCC is terminated for any reason, system sales, operating costs and supply chain management could be adversely affected, which could harm us and our franchisees and have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
 
 Our business could be hurt by increased labor costs or labor shortages.
 
 Labor is a primary component in the cost of operating our restaurants. We devote significant resources to recruiting and training our restaurant personnel, including managers and hourly employees. Increased labor costs due to competition, inflationary pressures, increased wages or employee benefits costs (including various federal, state and local actions to increase minimum wages), unionization activity or other factors have adversely impacted and could continue to adversely impact our cost of sales and operating expenses. In addition, Wendy’s success depends on our ability to attract, motivate and retain qualified employees, including restaurant managers and staff as well as employees and key personnel at our restaurant support center, and our inability to do so could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business, results of operations and brand perception could also be adversely impacted by unionization efforts or other campaigns by labor organizations affecting our employees or the employees of our franchisees or by our responses to any such efforts or campaigns.
 
 Our success depends in part upon the continued succession and retention of certain key personnel and the effectiveness of our leadership and organizational structure.
 
 We believe that over time our success has been dependent to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our senior leadership team and other key personnel. Our failure to retain members of our senior leadership team or other key personnel could adversely affect our ability to achieve our growth strategy and other business initiatives. In addition, changes to our leadership and organizational structure can be inherently difficult to manage, and if we are unable to implement such changes effectively, our business, results of operations and financial results could be adversely affected.
 
 Risks Related to Technology and Cybersecurity
 
 There are risks and uncertainties associated with our increasing dependence on digital commerce platforms and technologies and alternative methods of delivery.
 
 Advances in technologies, including advances in digital food ordering and delivery technologies, and changes in consumer behavior driven by such advances could have a negative effect on our business. Technology and consumer offerings continue to develop and evolve, and we expect that new and enhanced technologies and consumer offerings will be available in the future, including those with a focus on restaurant modernization, restaurant technology, digital engagement and integration, online ordering and delivery. Our inability to predict consumer acceptance of new technology or our failure to adequately invest in and implement new technology or adapt to technological developments, industry trends and evolving legal and regulatory requirements could result in a loss of customers and related market share. In addition, our competitors, some of whom have greater resources than we do, may be better able to benefit from changes in technologies or consumer acceptance of such changes, which could harm our competitive position and brand.
 
 An increasing amount of our sales and revenues is derived from digital orders, which includes online ordering and delivery. We have implemented technology and targeted advertising and promotions to support the growth of our digital business. If we are unable to continue to grow our digital business, it may be difficult for us to achieve our planned sales growth. If our digital commerce platforms, including the Wendy’s mobile app and online ordering system, do not meet customers’ expectations in terms of security, privacy, speed, attractiveness or ease of use, customers may be less inclined to return to those platforms,
 23
 
 which could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business could also be negatively impacted if we are unable to successfully implement or execute other consumer-facing digital initiatives, such as mobile order pick-up and carryout. We rely on third-party delivery services to fulfill delivery orders, and errors or failures by those providers to make timely deliveries could cause customers to stop ordering from us. The third-party restaurant delivery business is intensely competitive, with a number of companies competing for capital, market share, online traffic and delivery drivers. If the third-party delivery services that we utilize cease or curtail their operations, increase their fees or give greater priority or promotions on their platforms to our competitors, our delivery business and our sales may be negatively impacted. In addition, the delivery business has been consolidating and may continue to consolidate, which may give third-party delivery companies more leverage in negotiating the terms and pricing of contracts, which could in turn negatively impact our profits from this channel.
 
 We are heavily dependent on computer systems and information technology and any material failure, interruption or degradation of our systems or technology or issues with our key technology providers could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.
 
 We are heavily dependent on our computer systems and information technology, including those controlled by third-party providers, to conduct our business, including point-of-sale processing in our restaurants, technologies that support our digital and delivery solutions, management of our supply chain, collection of cash, payment of obligations and various other processes and procedures. Our ability to efficiently manage our business depends significantly on the reliability and performance of our systems and technology. The failure of our systems and technology to operate effectively, or an interruption or degradation in our systems or technology could be harmful and cause delays in customer service, result in the loss of digital sales or data, reduce efficiency or cause delays in operations. Significant capital investments might be required to remediate any such problems or to maintain or upgrade our systems and technology or transition to replacement systems or technology.
 
 We are dependent to a significant extent on our ongoing relationship with key technology providers, including their personnel, resources, technological expertise, systems and technology and their ability to help execute our digital, restaurant technology and enterprise technology initiatives and support our technology innovation and growth initiatives. The inability of us or our providers to successfully execute our technology growth initiatives while maintaining our brand value and perception could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
 
 The occurrence of cyber incidents, or a deficiency in cybersecurity, could negatively impact our brand, business, results of operations and financial condition.
 
 Cybersecurity incidents or breaches have, from time to time, occurred and may in the future occur involving our systems, the systems of our franchisees or the systems of third-party service providers. Such cybersecurity incidents and breaches may include, without limitation, unauthorized access, phishing attacks, account takeovers, denial of service, computer viruses, introduction of malware or ransomware and other disruptive problems caused by malicious actors. As our reliance on technology has increased, so have the risks posed to our systems, both internal and those managed by third parties. Our business involves the collection and retention of customer data, including, in some instances, credit and debit card numbers and other personally identifiable information, in various information systems that we and our franchisees maintain and in those maintained by third parties with whom we and our franchisees contract to provide credit card processing, digital ordering and related services. We also maintain important internal data, such as personally identifiable information about our employees and franchisees and information relating to our operations. Our use of personally identifiable information is regulated by international, federal and state laws, as well as by certain third-party agreements. As privacy and information security laws and regulations change, we will likely incur additional costs to ensure that we remain in compliance with those laws and regulations. If our security and information systems are compromised or if our employees or franchisees fail to comply with these laws, regulations or contract terms, and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect our reputation, disrupt our operations, damage our relationship with customers, franchisees or employees and result in costly litigation, judgments, or penalties resulting from violation of applicable laws and payment card industry regulations. A cyber incident could also require us to notify customers, employees or other groups, result in adverse publicity or a loss in consumer confidence, sales and profits, increase fees payable to third parties or cause us to incur penalties or remediation and other costs that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have devoted considerable resources to secure our systems and technology against security breaches and have implemented various processes, procedures and controls to help mitigate the risk of a cyber incident. However, the techniques and sophistication used to conduct cyber-attacks change frequently and the measures we have taken do not guarantee that a cyber incident or security breach could not occur or that our business, reputation and financial condition will not be adversely affected.
 
 24
 
 Risks Related to Our Indebtedness
 
 The Company and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to various restrictions, and substantially all of the assets of certain subsidiaries are security, under the terms of a securitized financing facility.
 
 Wendy’s Funding, LLC, a limited-purpose, bankruptcy-remote, wholly owned indirect subsidiary of the Company, is the master issuer (the “Master Issuer”) of outstanding senior secured notes under a securitized financing facility entered into in June 2015. Under the facility, the Master Issuer issued and has outstanding certain series of fixed rate and variable funding notes (collectively, the “Senior Notes”). The Senior Notes are secured by a security interest in substantially all of the assets of the Master Issuer and certain other limited-purpose, bankruptcy-remote, wholly-owned indirect subsidiaries of the Company that act as guarantors (collectively, the “Securitization Entities”), except for certain real estate assets and subject to certain limitations as set forth in the indenture governing the Senior Notes (the “Indenture”) and the related guarantee and collateral agreement. The assets of the Securitization Entities include most of the domestic and certain of the foreign revenue-generating assets of the Company and its subsidiaries, which principally consist of franchise-related agreements, real estate assets, intellectual property and license agreements for the use of intellectual property.
 
 The Senior Notes are subject to a series of covenants and restrictions customary for transactions of this type, including that the Master Issuer maintains specified reserve accounts to be used to make required payments in respect of the Senior Notes, provisions relating to optional and mandatory prepayments and the related payment of specified amounts, including specified make-whole payments under certain circumstances, certain indemnification payments in the event, among other things, that the assets pledged as collateral for the Senior Notes are in stated ways defective or ineffective and covenants relating to recordkeeping, access to information and similar matters. The Senior Notes are also subject to customary rapid amortization events provided for in the Indenture, including events tied to failure to maintain stated debt service coverage ratios, the sum of global gross sales for specified restaurants being below certain levels on certain measurement dates, certain manager termination events, the occurrence of an event of default and the failure to repay or refinance on the applicable scheduled maturity date. The Senior Notes are also subject to certain customary events of default, including events relating to non-payment of required interest, principal or other amounts due on or with respect to the Senior Notes, failure to comply with covenants within certain time frames, certain bankruptcy events, breaches of specified representations and warranties, the trustee under the Indenture ceasing to have valid and perfected security interests in certain collateral and certain judgments. In the event that a rapid amortization event occurs under the Indenture (including, without limitation, upon an event of default under the Indenture or the failure to repay the securitized debt at the end of the applicable term), the funds available to the Company would be reduced or eliminated, which would in turn reduce our ability to operate or grow our business.
 
 In addition, the Indenture and the related management agreement contain various covenants that limit the Company and its subsidiaries’ ability to engage in specified types of transactions, subject to certain exceptions, including, for example, to incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, sell certain assets, create or incur liens on certain assets to secure indebtedness or consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of their assets. As a result of these restrictions, the Company may not have adequate resources or flexibility to continue to manage the business and provide for growth of the Wendy’s system, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s future growth prospects, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
 
 We have a significant amount of debt outstanding, and such indebtedness could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.
 
 As of January 1, 2023, the Company had approximately $2.9 billion of outstanding debt on its balance sheet. Additionally, a subsidiary of the Company has issued variable funding notes, which allows for the borrowing of up to $300.0 million from time to time on a revolving basis. This level of debt could have significant consequences on the Company’s future operations, including: (i) making it more difficult to meet payment and other obligations under outstanding debt; (ii) resulting in an event of default if the Company’s subsidiaries fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in debt agreements, which event of default could result in all of the Company’s subsidiaries’ debt becoming immediately due and payable; (iii) reducing the availability of the Company’s cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, equity and debt repurchases, dividends, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; (iv) subjecting the Company to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases on indebtedness with variable interest rates; (v) limiting the Company’s flexibility in planning for or reacting to, and increasing its vulnerability to, changes in the Company’s business or industry or the general economy; and (vi) placing the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that are less leveraged. Further, the Company’s outstanding variable funding notes may accrue interest based on the London interbank offered rate (“LIBOR”). In connection with the
 25
 
 discontinuance of LIBOR, we expect to renegotiate certain loan documents and cannot predict what alternative index will be negotiated with our lenders or the resulting impact on our interest expense.
 
 The ability of the Company to make payments on, repay or refinance its debt, and to fund planned capital expenditures, dividends and other cash needs will depend largely upon its future operating performance and ability to generate significant cash flows. In addition, the ability of the Company to borrow funds in the future to make payments on its debt will depend on the satisfaction of the covenants in the securitized financing facility and other debt agreements, and other agreements it may enter into in the future. There can be no assurance that the Company’s business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available under the Company’s securitized financing facility or other debt agreements or from other sources in an amount sufficient to enable the Company to pay its debt or to fund its dividend and other liquidity needs.
 
 In addition to the Company’s outstanding indebtedness, the Company is subject to risks related to certain commitments, guarantees and other liabilities. These commitments, guarantees and other liabilities include, among others, significant contractual requirements regarding the purchase of soft drinks and guarantees and contingent liabilities related to certain franchisee leases for which the Company has been indemnified. These commitments, guarantees and other liabilities could have an adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity and the ability of its subsidiaries to meet payment obligations. The Company may incur additional indebtedness, guarantees, commitments or other liabilities in the future that could amplify the risks that the Company currently faces.
 
 Risks Related to Our Common Stock
 
 There can be no assurance regarding whether or to what extent we will pay dividends on our common stock in the future.
 
 Holders of our common stock will only be entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Any dividends will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our earnings, financial condition, cash requirements and such other factors as the Board may deem relevant from time to time. In addition, because Wendy’s is a holding company, its ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent upon cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments on hand and cash flows from its subsidiaries. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay cash dividends to the holding company is dependent upon their ability to achieve sufficient cash flows after satisfying their respective cash requirements, including the requirements and restrictions under our securitized financing facility and other debt agreements.
 
 A substantial amount of our common stock is concentrated in the hands of certain stockholders.
 
 Nelson Peltz, our Chairman, Peter May, our Senior Vice Chairman, Matthew Peltz, our Vice Chairman, and Edward Garden, a former director of the Company, beneficially own shares of our outstanding common stock that collectively constitute approximately 20% of the Company’s total voting power as of February 21, 2023. These individuals may, from time to time, acquire beneficial ownership of additional shares of common stock.
 
 On December 1, 2011, the Company entered into an agreement (the “Trian Agreement”) with Messrs. N. Peltz, May and Garden, and several of their affiliates (the “Covered Persons”). Pursuant to the Trian Agreement, our Board of Directors, including a majority of the independent directors, approved, for purposes of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Covered Persons becoming the owners (as defined in Section 203(c)(9)) of or acquiring an aggregate of up to (and including), but not more than, 32.5% (subject to certain adjustments set forth in the Trian Agreement) of the outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock, such that no such persons would be subject to the restrictions set forth in Section 203 solely as a result of such ownership. This concentration of ownership gives these individuals significant influence over the outcome of actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets. They are also in a position to have significant influence to prevent or cause a change in control of the Company.
 
 Our certificate of incorporation contains certain anti-takeover provisions and permits our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and limits our ability to raise capital from affiliates.
 
 Certain provisions in our certificate of incorporation are intended to discourage or delay a hostile takeover of control of the Company. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of shares of “blank check” preferred stock, which will have such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our Board of Directors. Accordingly, our
 26
 
 Board of Directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power and other rights of the holders of our common stock. The preferred stock could be used to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of the Company that is determined by the Board of Directors to be undesirable. Our certificate of incorporation prohibits the issuance of preferred stock to affiliates, unless offered ratably to the holders of our common stock, subject to an exception in the event that the Company is in financial distress and the issuance is approved by the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. This prohibition limits our ability to raise capital from affiliates.
 
 General Business Risks
 
 Complaints or litigation could hurt our brand, business, results of operations and financial condition.
 
 Wendy’s customers may file complaints or lawsuits against us or our franchisees alleging that we are responsible for an illness or injury they suffered at or after a visit to a Wendy’s restaurant, or alleging that there was a problem with food safety, food quality or operations at a Wendy’s restaurant. We may also be subject to a variety of other claims arising in the ordinary course of our business, including personal injury claims, contract claims, claims from franchisees, intellectual property claims, data privacy claims and claims alleging violations of law regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters, including class action lawsuits. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are found to be liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert management’s attention away from operations, hurt our performance and have a negative impact on our brand. While we believe we have adequate accruals for all of our legal and environmental matters, we cannot estimate the aggregate possible range of loss for our existing litigation and claims due to various reasons, including, but not limited to, many proceedings being in preliminary stages, with various motions either yet to be submitted or pending, discovery yet to occur, and significant factual matters unresolved. In addition, most cases seek an indeterminate amount of damages and many involve multiple parties. Predicting the outcomes of settlement discussions or judicial or arbitral decisions are thus inherently difficult. Insurance policies contain customary limitations, conditions and exclusions that can affect the amount of insurance proceeds ultimately received. A judgment significantly in excess of our insurance coverage for any claims could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, the restaurant industry has been subject to a number of claims alleging that the menus and actions of restaurant chains have contributed to the obesity or otherwise adversely impacted the health of certain of their customers. Adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may harm the reputation of our restaurants, even if the allegations are not directed against our restaurants or are not valid. Moreover, complaints, litigation or adverse publicity experienced by one or more of our franchisees could also hurt our brand or business as a whole.
 
 Existing and changing legal and regulatory requirements, as well as an increasing focus on environmental, social and governance issues, could adversely affect our brand, business, results of operations and financial condition.
 
 Each Wendy’s restaurant is subject to licensing and regulation by health, sanitation, safety and other agencies in the state or municipality in which the restaurant is located, as well as to federal laws, rules and regulations and requirements of non-governmental entities such as payment card industry rules. Governmental authorities may enact laws, rules or regulations that impact restaurant operations and the cost of conducting those operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that we and our franchisees will not experience material difficulties or failures in obtaining the necessary licenses or approvals for opening new restaurants. More stringent and varied requirements of local regulators with respect to tax, zoning, land use and environmental factors could also delay or prevent development of new restaurants in particular locations.
 
 We are subject to various laws and regulations that govern the offer and sale of a franchise, including rules by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. Various state, provincial and foreign laws regulate certain aspects of the franchise relationship, including terminations and the refusal to renew franchises. The failure to comply with these laws and regulations in any jurisdiction or to obtain required government approvals could result in a ban or temporary suspension on future franchise sales, fines and penalties or require us to make offers of rescission or restitution, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We could also face lawsuits by franchisees based upon alleged violations of these laws. We and our franchisees are each also subject to laws and regulations that govern employment matters at the federal/national, state/provincial and local levels. In the United States, this includes laws like the Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, Title VII, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the National Labor Relations Act, family leave, paid sick time and similar requirements and a variety of other laws, regulations and rules. Changes in laws, regulations, rules and governmental policies, including the interpretation thereof, could increase our costs, require modifications to our business practices, result in increased litigation, investigations, enforcement actions, fines or liabilities and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in the legal framework of employment or franchise liability could negatively impact our business, particularly if such
 27
 
 changes result in any law, rule, regulation, governmental policy or interpretation or judicial decision determining that Wendy’s is an employer of its franchisees or a joint employer with our franchisees or otherwise imposing liability for employment-related claims or impacting our employment relationships based on theories of joint employer liability or other theories of vicarious liability. In addition, various state and local laws may require wage increases and impose working hour and working condition standards that could result in increased costs, limit our or our franchisees’ ability to respond to market conditions and negatively impact our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified franchisees to operate or open restaurants in the impacted markets. If we are unable to effectively manage the risks associated with this complex legislative and regulatory environment, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.
 
 We are also subject to legal and compliance risks related to privacy and data collection, protection and management of certain data and information associated with our technology-related services and platforms made available to customers, employees, franchisees, business partners or other third parties. We are subject to a variety of U.S. federal and state and foreign laws and regulations in this area. These laws and regulations have been subject to frequent change, and there may be jurisdictions that propose or enact new data privacy requirements in the future. Failure to meet applicable data privacy requirements could result in legal proceedings and substantial penalties and adversely impact our business and financial condition. Additionally, evolving laws and regulations could require us and our franchisees to change or limit the way we collect or use information in operating our business, which may result in additional costs, limit our marketing or growth strategies and adversely affect our business and results of operations.
 
 There has been increasing public focus by investors, environmental activists, the media and governmental and nongovernmental organizations on environmental, social and governance matters, including packaging and waste, animal health and welfare, human rights, diversity, climate change, greenhouse gases and land, energy and water use. As a result, we have experienced increased pressure and expectations to provide expanded disclosure and establish commitments, goals or targets with respect to various environmental, social and governance issues and to take the actions necessary to meet those commitments, goals and targets. Furthermore, the standards by which certain environmental, social and governance issues are measured are evolving and subject to frequent change. If we are not effective, or perceived to be effective, in achieving our commitments, goals or targets or otherwise addressing various environmental, social and governance matters, consumer trust in our brand may suffer. In addition, the actions needed to achieve our commitments, goals and targets could result in market, operational, execution and other costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. Our results of operation and financial condition could be adversely impacted if we are unable to effectively manage the risks or costs to us, our franchisees and our supply chain associated with environmental, social and governance matters.
 
 Our current insurance may not provide adequate levels of coverage against claims that have been or may be filed.
 
 We currently maintain insurance that we believe to be adequate for businesses of our size and type. However, there are types of losses we could encounter that cannot be insured against or that we believe are not economically reasonable to insure, such as losses due to natural disasters, acts of terrorism or the declaration of war. In addition, we currently self-insure a significant portion of expected losses under workers’ compensation, general liability, products liability, auto liability and property insurance programs. Unanticipated changes in the actuarial assumptions and management estimates underlying our reserves for these losses could result in materially different amounts of expense, which could harm our business and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We also currently maintain insurance coverage to address cyber incidents. Applicable insurance policies contain customary limitations, conditions and exclusions, and there can be no assurance that our cyber insurance policies will cover substantially all of the costs and expenses related to any previous or future cyber incidents. In addition, our future insurance premiums may increase, and we may be unable to obtain similar levels of insurance on reasonable terms, or at all, due to challenging conditions in the insurance industry. Any inadequacy of, or inability to obtain, insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition.
 
 Changes in accounting standards, or the recognition of impairment or other charges, could adversely affect our future results of operations.
 
 New accounting standards or changes in financial reporting requirements, accounting principles or practices, including with respect to our critical accounting estimates, could adversely affect our future results. We may also be affected by the nature and timing of decisions about underperforming markets or assets, including decisions that result in impairment or other charges that reduce our earnings. In assessing the recoverability of our long-lived assets, goodwill and intangible assets, we consider changes in economic conditions and make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors. These estimates are highly subjective and can be significantly impacted by many factors such as business and economic conditions, operating costs, inflation, competition, consumer and demographic trends and restructuring activities. If our estimates or underlying assumptions change in the future, or if the operating performance or cash flows of our business decline, we may be
 28
 
 required to record impairment charges, which could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results for the affected periods.
 
 Tax matters, including changes in tax rates or laws, imposition of new taxes, disagreements with taxing authorities and unanticipated tax liabilities, could impact our results of operations and financial condition.
 
 We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and foreign jurisdictions, and our operations, plans and results are affected by tax matters and initiatives around the world. In particular, we are affected by the impact of changes to tax rates, laws or policies or related authoritative interpretations. We are also impacted by the settlement of adjustments proposed by taxing and governmental authorities in connection with our tax reviews and audits, all of which will depend on their timing, nature and scope. While we believe our recorded provision for income taxes properly reflects all applicable tax laws as currently enacted, there can be no assurance that we would be successful in challenging adjustments by the relevant tax authorities. Any significant increases in income tax rates, changes in income tax laws or unfavorable resolution of tax matters could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.
 
 Our operations are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.
 
 Most of our revenues, costs and indebtedness is denominated in U.S. dollars, which is also our reporting currency. Our international operations that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar are translated to U.S. dollars for our financial reporting purposes and are impacted by fluctuations in currency exchange rates and changes in currency regulations. Our exposures to foreign currency risk are primarily related to fluctuations in the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar for our Canadian operations. Unfavorable currency fluctuations could reduce our royalty income and revenues. While we attempt to minimize our foreign currency risks, our risk management strategies may not be effective and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.
 
 Our results can be adversely affected by unforeseen events, such as adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities, social unrest, health epidemics or pandemics or other catastrophic events.
 
 Unforeseen events, such as adverse weather conditions (including related to climate change), natural disasters, hostilities (including acts of war, terrorist activities and public or workplace violence), social unrest, health epidemics or pandemics or other catastrophic events can adversely affect consumer spending, consumer confidence, restaurant sales and operations, supply chains and our ability to perform corporate or support functions at our restaurant support center, any of which could affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.
 
What do you wish to search?
summary
showchat-summary 123123
showchat-summary 1
showchat 1
-clear
bot= 7114 userUtt= 19

Time Taken: 224
